

===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 1
HE-OFT: Privacy-Preserving One-Shot Federated
Fine-Tuning under Homomorphic Encryption
Technical Report
Halil ˙Ibrahim Kanpak , Sinem Sav , Alptekin K ¨upc ¸¨u
Abstract—For machine learning tasks, several parties often
hold data relevant to the same task and seek to jointly train a
single model without sharing or pooling their data. Federated
learning (FL) enables this, but privacy risks remain due to
reconstruction attacks that target shared intermediate values,
i.e., model or gradients. A one-shot protocol that exchanges a
single encrypted contribution removes that surface, but it still
ends by handing the trained result to every participant, which is
not permitted where the model itself is a regulated or proprietary
asset. We present HE-OFT, the first cryptographically secure one-
shot federated fine-tuning protocol in which no party receives the
trained result. Each client fine-tunes a low-rank adapter and a
classifier head on a frozen public backbone, retains the adapter
locally, and uploads one encrypted head displacement that the
server combines under multiparty CKKS and never decrypts. A
quorum of clients returns only the predicted label, addressed to
the party that asked. Across four text classification tasks and
one vision task, HE-OFT reaches0.61to0.79accuracy where a
client training alone reaches0.20to0.48, gives up0.03to0.14
against a disclosed model, and responds one query in400.8to
1468.3s on one core, or48.9to176.6s once level restoration
runs on a GPU, for13.5MiB of traffic.
Index Terms—Federated learning, one-shot federated learning,
federated fine-tuning, homomorphic encryption, multiparty com-
putation, privacy-preserving machine learning.
I. INTRODUCTION
Organizations adapt large public pretrained models to their
own data by fine-tuning [1], [2]. Often several organizations
hold complementary data over the same task, different patient
populations, fraud patterns, or customer bases, and each would
obtain an enhanced model from the combination than from
its own data alone [3]. However, pooling data is challenging
because data protection law restricts the sharing of confidential
records across institutions [4], [5], [6], [7], [8]. Competitive
concerns point the same way, and handing the data to who-
ever operates the fine-tuning infrastructure raises the same
objection [9]. Three obstacles stand between that setting and
a protocol these organizations could deploy.
Federated learning (FL) enables collaboration [10], and
its privacy risk is concentrated at training time [11], [12].
The protocol exchanges model updates instead of data, but
the updates are themselves vulnerable to privacy attacks. An
Corresponding Author: Sinem Sav (sinem.sav@cs.bilkent.edu.tr)
Halil ˙Ibrahim Kanpak is with the Department of Computer Engineering,
Koc ¸ University,˙Istanbul, T ¨urkiye (e-mail: hkanpak21@ku.edu.tr).
Sinem Sav is with the Department of Computer Engineering, Bilkent
University, Ankara, T ¨urkiye (e-mail: sinem.sav@cs.bilkent.edu.tr).
Alptekin K ¨upc ¸¨u is with the Department of Computer Engineering, Koc ¸
University, ˙Istanbul, T ¨urkiye (e-mail: akupcu@ku.edu.tr).
Manuscript received XX XX, XXXX; revised XX XX, XXXX.
adversary aggregating a client’s per-round updates can perform
membership inference at25.3%true positive rate at0.1%false
positive rate, against0.18%from a single snapshot [13]. Two
factors therefore determine the attack surface: what a protocol
reveals during training and how frequently it is revealed.
Eliminating this surface requires two measures to be taken
together. Making the protocolone-shot, hence each client
contributes only once, ensures that there is no intermediate
state for anyone to observe. Encrypting the single contribution
such that the only exchanged value is never available in
plaintext. In this paper,one-shotdoes not mean that the parties
stop communicating. Rather, it means that no intermediate
training artifact is ever exposed. Prior work applies one of
these measures at a time. One-shot FL [14] sends its single
contribution in plaintext [15], [16], [17], or protects it with
differential privacy [18], which adds noise to the artifact it
releases. Encrypted FL runs many rounds of encrypted training
or encrypted aggregation, paying the cryptographic cost on
every round, and training under encryption forces polynomial
replacements of every activation and a deep, repeatedly boot-
strapped circuit [19]. Thus, adapting a pretrained transformer
through this approach is impractical.
Applying both measures still leaves one artifact exposed,
namely the model itself. One-shot protocols end by handing
the final model to every participant, which rules them out when
the model may not be distributed at all. A model fine-tuned
on confidential records can be a regulated artifact in high-risk
domains such as health, biometrics, and credit [20].
In this work, we present HE-OFT, the first one-shot feder-
ated fine-tuning protocol that enables several parties to adapt
a pretrained model together and to query the result, without
any of them ever holding it in plaintext. The contribution is
encrypted under multiparty CKKS [21], [22], a homomorphic
encryption scheme where secret key is split across the par-
ties. The backbone remains public and in plaintext, thus the
cryptographic cost does not grow with its size. At no point
in the protocol is a training artifact, plaintext contribution, or
plaintext model exposed.
Figure 1 shows how the shared head is built. Every client
fine-tunes an adapter and a classifier head on the same frozen
public backbone, keeps the adapter, and uploads one encrypted
head displacement weighted by the classes it holds. The server
adds the ciphertexts and divides by the per-class totals under
encryption, thus the shared head exists only as a ciphertext,
and the server does not hold any key to decrypt it.
The querier must build its query from parts that it can run
itself. Therefore, those parts must be public. The shared trained

===== PAGE 2 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 2
1. train, locally 2. merge, under encryption 3. serve, under encryption
backbone adapter head
client 1
backbone adapter head
client 2
backbone adapter head
client N
⋮
the adapter never leaves the client
the server
Σ gj ⊙  Δj encrypted
reciprocal Enc(θ★)
select argmax
one index is decrypted, which arrangement is served
backbone
adapter
querying client
a quorum switches the
label to this client alone
Enc(gj ⊙  Δj)
Enc(φ(x))
one label
Fig. 1. The protocol in three stages. Each client fine-tunes an adapter and a classifier head on the same frozen public backbone, keeps the adapter, and
uploads one encrypted head displacement weighted by its per-class counts. The server adds the ciphertexts and divides by the per-class totals under encryption,
holding no decryption key, so the shared headθ ⋆ exists only as a ciphertext. The same server answers queries.
quantity therefore sits after the last nonlinearity, which, in a
transformer, is a single place. Following this, we summarize
our contributions below:
•We split the trainable unit.We federate the classifier
head alone. Each client keeps its adapter and never
transmits it, because a client can improve its own features
alone but cannot recognize a class it has never seen. The
protocol forms no adapter aggregate, and a coalition of
all but one client therefore has no sum from which to
subtract its own contributions (Section III-B).
•We design a serving path that never decrypts.The
querying client encrypts its own features, and the server
cannot read the query. We return the label alone, and a
client therefore cannot collect the per-class scores that
would let it solve for the head (Section III-C).
•We select between arrangements under encryption.
Two arrangements are servable at the same cost: the
shared head over each client’s own adapter and the
shared head over the bare public backbone. The two fail
for opposite reasons, the shared head when the public
backbone alone does not separate the label space, and
the personal adapter when a client’s representation drifts
too far. Which failure binds depends on the task and on
the partition, and the federation must measure both. We
show that the natural rule, each client scoring both ar-
rangements on its own held-out data and voting, estimates
the wrong quantity. Our estimator corrects it, needs no
fitted threshold, and reveals only which arrangement won
(Section III-D).
We evaluate HE-OFT on four text classification tasks and one
vision task, with frozen RoBERTa [23] and vision transformer
(ViT) [24] backbones, and we implement the cryptographic
protocol in real multiparty CKKS rather than simulating it.
II. PRELIMINARIES
We denote client indices withj∈ {1, . . . , N}and class
indices arec∈ {1, . . . , C}. Clientjholds a datasetD j of
sizen j and uploads a head displacement∆ j, from which the
server forms the shared headθ ⋆.The frozen public backbone
isφ, whileφ j denotes this backbone composed with client
j’s local adapter. We denoteEnc(·)for encryption under
TABLE I
NOTATION.
Symbol Meaning
Nnumber of participating clients
Dj , n j clientj’s dataset and its sizen j =|D j |
Cnumber of classes
nj,c examples of classcheld by clientj
φfrozen public backbone, never trained or encrypted
Aj clientj’s adapter, trained locally and never transmitted
φj clientj’s feature map, the backbone composed withA j
θ0 public initializer of the classifier head
hj clientj’s trained head
∆j head displacementh j −θ 0
wj sample weightn j / P
i ni
θ⋆ shared head, held only as a ciphertext
Enc(·)encryption under the collective public key
the collective public key andtfor the decryption threshold.
Section II provides a comprehensive table of the notation.
A. Multiparty Homomorphic Encryption
We build on CKKS [21], which performs approximate
arithmetic on packed vectors of real numbers under encryption.
It is a levelled scheme [25] such that each multiplication
spends one level of a finite budget, and a depleted budget
is restored by bootstrapping [26].
A single-key scheme would require one party to hold the
secret key and therefore to be trusted with decryption. We
use the multiparty variant [22], stated here for at-out-of-N
threshold with2≤t≤N.
The protocol requires four operations from the multiparty
scheme. Key generation produces one collective public key
and the evaluation keys from the clients’ shares, and never
assembles the secret in one place, such that any party may
compute on ciphertexts, and none may read them. Decryption
takes partial shares from at leasttclients, and anyt−1of them
learn nothing about a plaintext. A key switch to a designated
public key redirects a result so that one chosen party reads it
and no other does. A collective refresh restores a spent level
budget, and enables bootstrapping.
In the protocol, anytclients form a quorum, thus compu-
tation does not require every client to be online. Anyt−1

===== PAGE 3 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 3
clients are powerless against a ciphertext, hencet−1is the
corruption bound throughout Section IV.
Our implementation instantiatest=N, which is the setting
the multiparty CKKS library provides, and the measurements
of Section V-E are taken there. Every statement in Section IV
holds for generalt.
III. METHOD
a) Problem Statement:We considerNclients holding
private labeled data over a common label space ofCclasses.
Clientjholds dataD j of sizen j. The class proportions differ
across clients, and a client may hold no example of a class.
The clients seek a classifier that operates across the entire
label space, and they cannot pool their data to train a single
model. Three requirements separate this setting from vanilla
federated learning. The protocol isone-shot, and each client
uploads its encrypted head displacement once. Confidentiality
rests on cryptography, and a client’s contribution is never
available in plaintext to any other party. The trained classifier
is never disclosed, and no party, client or server, ever holds it
in plaintext.
b) Threat Model:The participants areNclients and
a server. A static, semi-honest adversary corrupts the server
together with up tot−1clients. The corrupted parties
follow the protocol, pool their views, and try to infer private
information from what they observe. Section IV states what
each party sees and proves the guarantees.
c) Motivation:Optimization cannot run under encryption
at an acceptable cost. Gradient steps, softmax, and adaptive
curvature need deep circuits that bootstrap repeatedly. All
learning therefore happens in plaintext on the clients, and the
server performs no learning. Models trained from different
starting points do not combine linearly, and multiplicative
depth dominates homomorphic cost. Every client therefore
starts its trainable unit from one public initializer on one frozen
public backbone, and the server combines what it receives by a
linear combination. That is the cheapest operation the scheme
offers, and it is the only one the method needs.
Intermediate training signals are the strongest attack surface.
Each exposed round is a fresh training-time artifact, and
Section VI-A reports what such artifacts give up. The protocol
is therefore one-shot, and its single artifact is a ciphertext. No
single party may be able to decrypt that artifact. The parties
distrust one another and the server is semi-honest, so the
secret key is generated and held distributively under multiparty
CKKS (Section II-A).
The model is never disclosed, yet it must answer queries.
A query is formed from features, and the client that asks
the query computes those features itself. The client therefore
runs the backbone and its own adapter in plaintext, and the
trained quantity that is shared cannot sit inside the backbone.
One further choice follows from the same restriction on the
server. A server that computes on ciphertexts cannot inspect
a value, compare two of them, or branch on the result, so it
cannot apply an aggregation rule that depends on the data. The
clients make that choice instead, without decrypting anything
(Section III-D).
A. Overview
The protocol runs in two phases. In the first, each client
fine-tunes an adapter and a classifier head on the same frozen
public backbone, keeps the adapter, and uploads its head
displacement once, weighted by its own per-class counts and
encrypted. Figure 1 shows that phase. In the second, a client
computes the features of its query itself, encrypts them, and
sends them to the server, which applies the encrypted head
and reduces the encrypted logits to the index of the largest.
No party holds a key that opens the shared head alone.
B. Shared Head Construction
1) Local Training:Each client uses the same frozen public
backboneφ, and trains a low-rank adapterA j that adjusts the
representation, and a classifier headh j on top of it. Only the
head is shared. Clientjencrypts the displacement∆ j =h j −
θ0 ∈R C×d of its head from the public initializer and uploads
it once. The server combines the encrypted displacements into
a single shared head and never decrypts the result. The adapter
is trained locally and never transmitted.
2) Position of the Shared Map:The client that sends an
inference query must compute the features of that query
itself. If the shared trained quantity were an adapter placed
inside the backbone, the features would depend on it, and
computing them would require evaluating the backbone with
encrypted weights. The client would then have to evaluate
every nonlinearity of the network homomorphically, which is
the cost this design exists to avoid. The trained quantity that
is shared must therefore attach after the last nonlinearity. In a
transformer, the only such point is the final linear map.
The requirement constrains thepositionof the shared map,
not the task it serves. Any trained linear map that comes
after the last nonlinearity satisfies it, provided the querying
client can compute the features that enter the map. A classifier
head is one such map. The vocabulary projection of an
autoregressive decoder is another, since it is linear, comes
after the final layer normalization, and takes features the client
can compute from a prefix it generated itself. We evaluate
classification only. The construction itself does not depend on
the label space being a set of classes, and Section V-H records
what a generation setting would additionally require, including
the restriction to greedy decoding that Section III-C imposes.
The adapter is relocated. Each client retains its own, thus the
representation still adapts to local data. The distinction follows
from coverage. A client can improve its own representation
alone, but it cannot learn to recognize a class it has never
observed. Coverage is a property of the head, which is exactly
what the federation supplies. Section V-B measures both
halves.
Retaining the adapter locally has a second consequence,
which is cryptographic. No aggregate of the adapters is ever
formed. Section IV states this precisely.
3) Coverage-Weighted Merge:Letg j ∈R C collect client
j’s per-class example counts,g j,c =n j,c. The shared head is
the coverage-weighted combination
θ⋆ =θ 0 +
PN
j=1 diag(gj) ∆j
PN
j=1 gj
,(1)

===== PAGE 4 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 4
Algorithm 1Building the shared head. All clients hold the
same frozen public backboneφand the same public head
initializerθ 0.
1:clients run distributed key generation, obtaining a collective
public key
2:forclientj= 1, . . . , Nin parallel do
3:train adapterA j and headh j onD j ▷plaintext, local
4:keepA j, which is never transmitted
5:sendEnc(diag(g j) ∆j)andEnc(g j), where∆ j =h j −θ 0
6:end for
7:serveradds the ciphertexts to form the numerator and the
denominator of eq. (1)▷additions only
8:serverevaluates the reciprocal of the denominator under encryp-
tion and multiplies▷once, not per
query
9:returnEnc(θ ⋆), which no party decrypts
in which rowcof the shared head is the count-weighted
average of the clients’ row-cdisplacements. Clients holding
a class decide its row, and rows that no client covers re-
main at the public initializer. Each client forms the products
diag(gj) ∆j locally, before encryption, thus the server only
adds ciphertexts.
4) Division by the Class Totals:The denominator of eq. (1)
is the vector of federation-wide per-class totals. It cannot
be decrypted. Every client knows its own counts, hence a
coalition ofN−1clients that learned the totals would subtract
its own and read the remaining client’s class histogram exactly.
The reciprocal is therefore evaluated under encryption, using
an inversion circuit over the positive domain whose refreshes
are collective. It is paid once, at aggregation, never per query.
Two properties of that circuit should be stated, because
a deployment has to size them. The inversion converges on
a bounded positive interval, and we scale the totals by the
federation’s example count, which is public, so the argument
lands in(2 −6,1]. A class whose share falls below2 −6 is
outside that interval. Our measurement uses denominators in
[0.02,0.99]and reports a relative error of1.9×10 −8 at ten
parties, so it does not cover the low end. Banking77 and
CIFAR-100 sit there, at class shares near0.013and0.010,
and a deployment at those label-space sizes must widen the
interval or rescale by the largest class total rather than by the
example count.
A class that no client holds would divide by zero, and
detecting that under encryption is a comparison rather than
a scaling. We do not implement one. Section V-B counts the
holders of every class row and finds none at zero on any task,
seed or partition we measured, so the case does not arise in our
configuration. A deployment that cannot rule it out needs either
a public list of covered classes, which discloses coverage, or
a comparison in the aggregation circuit, which the cost of
Section V-E does not include.
5) Aggregation Cost:The server performs one ciphertext
addition per client per ciphertext, one encrypted reciprocal,
and one multiplication. The encrypted object is the head alone,
whose size is set by the number of classes and the feature
dimension. Communication is one upload per client and no
download of model parameters at all.
C. Encrypted Inference
The construction below serves a trained quantity that is
linear in the features. Serving a trained quantity that sits
inside the backbone is the problem that secure transformer
inference addresses. An encrypted shared adapter composes
with those systems at the cost they report, and we place
that case outside our scope. One difference should be noted.
Those systems evaluate a plaintext model on encrypted inputs,
whereas here the shared weights are encrypted as well, so each
adapter site would carry a ciphertext-by-ciphertext product.
The dominant cost in that literature is the nonlinearities, which
are unchanged, thus the added cost is the low-rank product per
site rather than a different order of magnitude.
1) Query Serving:A client that wants a prediction com-
putes the features of its query with its own backbone and
adapter, encrypts them, and sends the ciphertext to the server.
The server applies the encrypted shared head to the encrypted
features, obtains encrypted logits, and reduces them to the
index of the largest entry under encryption. Algorithm 2 states
it.
2) Query Encryption:The client could send the features in
plaintext, which would make the head application cheaper. We
encrypt them because features are invertible. A party holding
φj(x)and the public backbone can reconstruct an approxima-
tion ofx. Sending features in plaintext would therefore hand
the server the client’s input, which is the thing the protocol
exists to protect. The price is that the server applies the head
ciphertext by ciphertext rather than ciphertext by plaintext, and
Section V-E reports what that costs.
3) Label-Only Output:Returning logits would defeat the
construction. The head is a linear map on features the client
computes itself, therefore a client that reads logits for feature
vectors of its choosing recovers the head by solving a linear
system in as many queries as the feature dimension [27].
This is not a hypothetical concern. The same object, the
final projection layer of a production transformer, has been
recovered through a deployed interface for a few tens of
dollars, using an interface that exposed log-probabilities and
a logit bias, and the operators’ response was to restrict that
combination [28]. Returning only the index of the largest entry
is the same restriction imposed by construction rather than
by policy. It places an adversary in the hard-label setting,
where functionally equivalent extraction has only recently
been achieved for general networks [29], [30]. Those results
carry a factor exponential in the number of hidden neurons,
and our shared quantity has none, thus the restriction buys
less here than they suggest. It removes the linear solve and
puts a search for decision boundaries in its place, at a factor
logarithmic in the precision demanded, and it leaves the head
determined only up to a positive scale and a vector added
to every row. It does not make extraction impossible, and
Section IV states the resulting bound as a bound on queries
rather than a cryptographic hardness claim.
4) Decryption to the Querier:Decryption needs a quorum,
and clients other than the querier take part in answering
each query. They contribute partial decryptions and read
nothing, because the quorum key-switches the ciphertext to the

===== PAGE 5 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 5
Plaintext, on the querying client Ciphertext, evaluated by the serving party Threshold decryption
Querying client
query
frozen public backbone
and the client's own adapter
encrypt the feature vector
The backbone and the adapter are the client's own,
so the serving party never sees the feature vector
and cannot invert it to recover the query.
Serving party
apply the encrypted head to the
encrypted features
encrypted logits
argmax under encryption
log-depth tournament of comparisons
Holds the evaluation keys only.
It computes but cannot decrypt.
shared classifier head,
in ciphertext
Produced once by the aggregation of Fig. 1 and never decrypted.
Quorum of clients
each client contributes
a key-switching share
switch to the querier's key
one predicted label,
to the querier alone
The other clients contribute shares
without learning the answer.
encrypted
features
encrypted
label
Fig. 2. Answering one query. The querying client computes the features with its own backbone and adapter and encrypts them, so the server never sees the
feature vector and cannot invert it to recover the query. The server holds the evaluation keys only. It applies the encrypted head, obtains encrypted logits, and
reduces them to the index of the largest entry by a tournament of homomorphic comparisons. A quorum of clients then switches that index to the querying
client’s key, so the other clients contribute shares without learning the answer.
Algorithm 2Answering one query. The shared head remains
a ciphertext throughout.
Require:queryxat clientj;Enc(θ ⋆)held by the server
1:clientjcomputesφ j(x)with its own backbone and adapter▷
plaintext, local
2:clientjsendsEnc(φ j(x))
3:servercomputesEnc(ℓ)←Enc(θ ⋆)Enc(φ j(x))▷ciphertext
by ciphertext
4:serverreducesEnc(ℓ)toEnc(ˆy),ˆy= arg max c ℓc, by a
tournament of homomorphic comparisons [31]
5:a quorum of clients key-switchesEnc(ˆy)to clientj’s public key
6:returnˆy, readable by clientjalone
querying client’s public key rather than decrypting the label
collectively.
5) Serving Cost:The argmax is the one operation in the
protocol that costs more than one level, because it compares
logits rather than adding or scaling them. Evaluated as a
sequential fold ofC−1comparisons, it costs minutes for
a large label space. Packing the logits into one ciphertext
and reducing them by a tournament lowers the number of
sequential comparisons fromC−1to⌈log 2 C⌉, and Sec-
tion V-E reports the measured result. None of this is particular
to the multiparty setting. Homomorphic evaluation under a
collectively generated key is identical to evaluation under a
single key, and the schemes differ only in key generation
and in decryption, therefore single-key results carry over. The
server is not trusted with anything. It holds the collective
public key, the evaluation keys, and ciphertexts, so it computes
but cannot decrypt, and it learns neither the model nor any
client’s data. It is trusted only for availability, and where
honest computation must be certified, verifiable homomorphic
encryption applies [32].
D. Arrangement Selection
1) Encrypted Scoring:Two arrangements are available at
the same cost: the shared head over each client’s own adapter,
and the shared head over the bare public backbone with no
adapter at all. Which is better depends on the task, and the
federation must choose without decrypting either. Each client
evaluates both on data it holds back from its own training,
entirely under encryption, and reports encrypted per-class
counts. The server combines the counts into one encrypted
score per arrangement, and the federation decrypts exactly one
value, the index of the arrangement it adopts.
2) Prior-Weighted Estimator:Each client could instead
measure both arrangements on its held-out data and vote.
That procedure estimates the wrong quantity. It selects the
personal arrangement in every cell, so Section V-D finds it
wrong wherever the shared arrangement is better. Score both
arrangements as the expected accuracy of a prediction on an
example drawn from the federation’s own class distribution,
E=
CX
c=1
pc ac, p c =
P
j nj,c
P
j nj
,(2)
wherea c is the accuracy on classcandp c is that class’s share
of the federation’s examples, taken from the per-class counts
already used in eq. (1). For the shared arrangement, there is
one model, hence per-class evidence from different clients
concerns the same object and combines. For the personal
arrangement each client’s evidence concerns only its own
model, and classes it does not hold contribute no evidence
at all. Scoring those classes at zero makesEa lower bound

===== PAGE 6 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 6
Each client scores both candidates on its own held-out data Combined and compared under encryption
Two candidate settings, both servable at the same cost
shared head, no adapter shared head, over the
client's own adapter
Client j
run each candidate on the held-out examples,
obtaining encrypted logits
select the logit of the true class with a plaintext mask
the client knows its own labels, so the mask is public
compare against the encrypted maximum and
accumulate the encrypted counts, one per class
No client ever sees a candidate model, and no per-example
label is decrypted.
Aggregation of the encrypted scores
weight each class by its share of the
federation's examples, taken from the
public count matrix
the shared candidate pools evidence
across clients; the personal candidate
cannot, and its unseen classes score zero
one encrypted comparison of the two
one decrypted value:
which candidate the federation adopts
The two scores themselves are never revealed, so no client's
accuracy on its own data is disclosed to the others.
encrypted
counts
Fig. 3. Choosing between two arrangements without decrypting either. Each client scores both on data held back from its own training, selecting the logit
of the true class with a plaintext mask, which is public because the client knows its own labels. The per-class counts are weighted by each class’s share of
the federation’s examples, taken from the count matrix already used for the aggregation. The shared arrangement pools evidence across clients because it is
one model; the personal arrangement cannot, and classes a client does not hold contribute nothing, which makes its score a lower bound. Exactly one value
is decrypted.
Algorithm 3Choosing an arrangement without decrypting
either. Nothing is revealed except the index of the winner.
1:foreach arrangementmand each clientjdo
2:foreach held-out example(x, y)of clientjdo
3:obtainEnc(ℓ)andEnc(max c ℓc)as in algorithm 2
4:selectEnc(ℓ y)with a plaintext mask▷the client knows
y, thus the mask is public
5:addEnc
 
1[ℓy = maxc ℓc]

to the class-yaccumulator
6:end for
7:end for
8:combine the accumulators intoEnc(E m)by eq. (2), using public
scalars▷depth one
9:compare the two encrypted scores
10:returnthe decrypted index of the larger▷one value
for the personal arrangement. There is no fitted threshold
anywhere.
3) One Example per Class:The estimator needs an esti-
mate of accuracy on classes a client has not seen, and its
only local proxy is accuracy on classes it has barely seen. A
held-out set carved uniformly almost never contains a class
the client holds one or two examples of, thus that proxy
is unmeasurable. Each client therefore reserves at least one
held-out example from every class it holds before carving the
remainder at random. A client holding a single example of
a class donates it, thus its adapter never trains on that class,
which is exactly the probe the estimator needs. This costs a
negligible amount of training data and requires no change to
the cryptographic protocol.
4) Cost and Disclosure:Every step is depth one except the
comparisons, which are the same circuit already used for the
argmax. One value is decrypted for the whole federation. The
per-client per-class accuracies are not decrypted, and must not
be.
IV. SECURITY
The participants areNclients and a server. A static, semi-
honest adversary corrupts the server together with up to
t−1clients. The corrupted parties follow the protocol, pool
their views, and try to infer private information from what
they observe. Section IV-C strengthens the client side of this
model, and allows up tot−1clients to deviate arbitrarily
while the server stays honest. Section IV-D explains why that
assumption cannot be dropped.
The server sees ciphertexts under the collective public key,
the public per-client sample counts, and the evaluation keys.
It does not hold the decryption key. The server additionally
sees encrypted query features, which it cannot read.
Three properties of the construction restrict what a coalition
can compute. Every adapter remains with its owner, and the
protocol never forms an aggregate from which a coalition
could subtract its own contributions. The shared head remains
a ciphertext throughout, so the same subtraction is unavailable

===== PAGE 7 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 7
Functionality 1HE-OFTF
Parameters.The client countN, the decryption thresholdt, the per-client
query allowanceQ, and the label space sizeC. The parties are clients
P1, . . . , PN and a serverS, which is not part ofF. The functionality holds
a counterq j for each client, each initialized to0, and a store that is initially
empty and thatFnever sends to any party.
Inputs.Each clientP j inputs its datasetD j, and later inputs queriesx. The
serverSinputs a selection request.
Outputs.Every party receives the selected indexa ⋆ and the phase signals.
ClientP j receives one label for each of its firstQqueries, and⊥afterwards.
Steps.
1)Training and aggregation.On(Train,D j)from every client, run
the local training of Section III-B on eachD j in both servable
arrangements and store the two shared headsθ ⋆
A andθ ⋆
B of eq. (1).
Send(Done,train)to every party.
2)Selection.On(Select)fromS, evaluate the estimator of eq. (2) on
each of the two stored heads, send the indexa ⋆ ∈ {A, B}of the
larger to every party, and send(Done,select)to every party.
3)Serving.On(Query, x)from clientP j, return⊥toP j ifq j ≥Q.
Otherwise setq j ←q j + 1, returnˆy= arg max c (θ⋆
a⋆ φa⋆
j (x))c to
Pj alone, whereφ A
j =φis the public backbone andφ B
j =φ j is the
backbone composed withP j’s adapter, and send(Done,query, j)to
S.
Leakage.FrevealsLto the adversary, consisting of the public parameters,
the per-client sample countsn j, the announced indexa ⋆, and the fact that
eachDonemessage was sent.
against it. The server inverts the per-class totals under encryp-
tion and never decrypts them. A coalition therefore cannot
recover the remaining client’s class histogram.
The claim concerns disclosure. The protocol publishes no
direct read of the class histogram, and we do not establish that
the histogram is unrecoverable. A client’s counts also shape the
displacement it uploads, since for a linear map trained under
cross-entropy the magnitude of the row for a class grows with
the number of examples of that class the client held [33].
Those displacements are ciphertexts, and the merged head is
a ciphertext. No ciphertext is readable while the encryption
holds, and Section IV-F1 measures what survives into an
extracted copy. Inverting the totals under encryption removes
the only channel that would have disclosed the histogram in
plaintext.
This section states what the protocol guarantees. Sec-
tion IV-A gives an ideal functionality. Section IV-B proves
that the protocol realizes it against semi-honest parties. Sec-
tion IV-C bounds what a malicious client coalition learns about
an honest client’s data. Section IV-D shows that the server
must be honest and what would remove that requirement.
Section IV-E separates what the cryptography guarantees from
what the task itself leaks.
A. The Ideal Functionality
Functionality 1 defines the ideal functionalityFagainst
which we measure the protocol.Fdoes not include the server,
and the semi-honest adversary of Section IV may corrupt it.
The form of the functionality follows the secure aggregation
functionality of ELSA [34], and placing the aggregator outside
it follows FULLSA [35].
The leakage includes the sample counts because the protocol
uses them as public scalars. We prove security relative to both.
The protocol must reproduce three properties ofF. No
party ever holds either shared head. The only value the whole
federation learns is one index. A client learns one label for
each query it submits, up to its allowanceQ, and nothing
else.
B. Security Against Semi-Honest Parties
Definition 1(Semi-honest security).LetAcorrupt a set
of parties that may contain the server and at mostt−1
clients. Writeview Π
A({Dj}N
j=1)for the corrupted parties’ joint
view of a protocol run on datasets{D j}N
j=1. The protocolΠ
securely realizesFwith leakageLif there is a probabilistic
polynomial-time simulatorSsuch that, for every{D j}N
j=1,
viewΠ
A({Dj}N
j=1)
c
≈ S
 
L,{D j}jcorrupt ,out A

,
whereout A collects the answersFreturns to the corrupted
clients.
The simulator receives the answers because the protocol
delivers them. A definition that withheld them would be
unachievable, and the resulting theorem would not apply to
a system that answers queries.
Theorem 1(Semi-honest security).Assume thet-out-of-N
threshold CKKS scheme is secure under chosen plaintext
attack (IND-CPA) against an adversary holdingt−1key
shares. Then the protocol securely realizesFwith leakageL
against any semi-honest adversary corrupting the server and
at mostt−1clients, in the sense of definition 1.
Proof sketch.The simulator is givenL, the corrupted clients’
datasets, and the answers the corrupted clients receive.
Setup.The simulator runs the distributed key generation
with the corrupted parties, playing the honest clients on
uniformly chosen shares.
Training.For each honest client, the simulator sends an
encryption of zero in place ofEnc(diag(g j) ∆j), once for
each of the two arrangements, and in place ofEnc(g j), which
the two share. The simulator knows how many ciphertexts to
send, because the count follows from the public parameters. A
hybrid argument replaces the honest ciphertexts one at a time,
and each neighbouring pair of hybrids is indistinguishable by
IND-CPA againstt−1shares, the assumption of the theorem.
The server’s additions and its multiplication by the recip-
rocal are deterministic functions of those ciphertexts and of
public scalars. The simulator computes them as the server
does. The encrypted reciprocal is not such a function. Its
inversion circuit consumes levels and restores them by collec-
tive refresh, an interactive protocol in which the participating
clients contribute fresh randomness. The simulator therefore
invokes the simulator of the refresh protocol for each of the
two refreshes, playing the honest clients on that protocol’s
simulated shares. Both refreshes occur at fixed points in the
circuit, and those points do not depend on any plaintext. The
simulator knows their number and position in advance.
Selection and serving.The selection step decrypts the index
a⋆ of the adopted arrangement. The simulator takes it from
Land produces the collective key-switching transcript for it
from that protocol’s simulator. For each query of a corrupted
client, the simulator holds the answer inout A and simulates

===== PAGE 8 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 8
the key switch to that client in the same way. Queries by honest
clients are switched to keys the adversary does not hold. Their
transcripts are simulated as key switches of encryptions of
zero.
Composing the three parts gives a view computationally
indistinguishable from the real one.
C. Input Privacy Against Malicious Clients
Theorem 1 assumes every party follows the protocol. We
extend the model to clients that deviate arbitrarily. We bound
what a deviating coalition learns about the data of a client that
follows the protocol. We do not claim correctness.
Definition 2(Content game).The adversaryAcorruptst−1
clients. The server is honest. At least one clienthstays honest.
1)Aoutputs two datasetsD 0 andD 1 with|D 0|=|D 1|.
2) The challenger samplesb∈ {0,1}and givesD b to client
h.
3) The protocol runs.Amay deviate arbitrarily in the
values its clients upload, in the shares they contribute,
and in the queries they ask.
4)Aoutputsb ′. Its advantage is|Pr[b ′ =b]− 1
2 |.
The equal-size restriction is necessary. The per-client sam-
ple counts are public. An adversary free to choose datasets of
different sizes determinesbfrom the counts alone.
Theorem 2(Input privacy).Assume the conditions of theo-
rem 1. Then the advantage ofAin definition 2 is at most
negl(λ) +δ(Q tot), whereQ tot = (t−1)Qandδis the
advantage available fromQ tot label queries to the served
head.
Proof sketch.The adversary’s view consists of the key-
generation transcript, the honest clients’ uploaded ciphertexts,
the values the server computes, and the answers to its own
queries.
The first four are independent ofbup tonegl(λ). The
honest ciphertexts are indistinguishable from encryptions of
zero by the hybrid argument of theorem 1, which holds
against an adversary witht−1shares. The server is honest,
so the values it computes are the prescribed deterministic
functions of those ciphertexts and of public scalars, and every
ciphertext presented for key switching is the prescribed output
of algorithm 2 on a query. The plaintext of that ciphertext
is a label the coalition does not choose. Deviating in the
uploaded values gives no advantage, because the adversary
already chooses those values in the real protocol and they
carry no dependence onb. Deviating in the contributed shares
gives none either, because a share that is not the prescribed
one makes the reconstruction fail, which aborts the query and
returns nothing.
Only the answers remain. They depend onb, becauseθ ⋆
depends on clienth’s displacement, and the advantage they
give is bounded by whatQ tot label queries reveal.
The bound scales with the corruption threshold. A coalition
oft−1clients holds(t−1)Qqueries regardless of the size
of the federation. Section V-F measuresδand turns it into a
bound onQ.
D. The Honest-Server Assumption
Theorem 2 assumes an honest server. No protocol with this
message pattern can drop that assumption. Decryption is a
protocol the clients run on a ciphertext the server presents. A
deviating server can present a ciphertext of its own choosing,
such as a row ofθ ⋆, rather than the output of algorithm 2. The
natural repair is to have an honest client refuse such a request.
It cannot, and the obstacle is the encryption itself.
Proposition 1(No plaintext gate from a ciphertext).Let an
honest client decide, by a polynomial-time predicateDon its
view, whether to contribute its decryption share for a presented
ciphertext. Let the rest of that view be independent of the
underlying plaintext. If the scheme is IND-CPA against an
adversary holdingt−1key shares, then for every pair of
plaintextsm 0 andm 1,
 Pr[D(Enc(m0)) = 1]−Pr[D(Enc(m 1)) = 1]
 ≤negl(λ).
Proof.A gap between the two probabilities gives an IND-
CPA distinguisher that holds one key share. One share is at
mostt−1shares. The assumed security of the scheme applies
directly.
An honest client therefore releases its share for both plain-
texts or for neither. No protocol of this message pattern realizes
Fagainst a malicious server. Theorem 2 assumes an honest
server for this reason.
Two mechanisms would remove the assumption, and we
implement neither. The first checks provenance rather than
content. The serving circuit is a deterministic function of the
encrypted head, the encrypted query, the evaluation keys, and
the public parameters, and its level restoration is deterministic
as well, because the protocol restores levels under collec-
tively generated bootstrapping keys rather than by collective
refresh. A checker holding those four inputs can recompute the
prescribed output ciphertext and compare it as a string. The
design choice that saves510MiB of traffic on every query
is the same one that leaves the circuit verifiable. Checking
a random fractionpof queries suffices, because recovering
the shared map needs on the order ofCddeviating requests
and a campaign of that length escapes a single checker with
probability at most(1−p) Cd, which atp= 0.01is below
10−13 on the smallest of our tasks.
Two conditions on that mechanism should be stated, because
the protocol as specified does not meet them. The checker must
hold the encrypted head and the querier’s encrypted features,
and a quorum member holds neither. Both are ciphertexts, so
broadcasting them to the quorum discloses no plaintext, but it
costs traffic on every checked query and it tells the quorum
which client asked, which Section IV-E counts as leakage. We
describe the mechanism rather than claim it, and a deployment
that wants it pays for both.
The second mechanism certifies which function the server
evaluated, through a zero-knowledge proof of correct eval-
uation or verifiable homomorphic encryption [32]. It needs
neither condition. Section V-H records both as limitations.

===== PAGE 9 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 9
E. Leakage of the Functionality
Theorem 1 demonstrates that the protocol reveals no more
thanFreveals. This subsection bounds whatFreveals.
Fanswers queries. Answers carry information aboutθ ⋆,
and a sufficient number of them reconstruct it. Section V-F
measures the rate at three to five queries per parameter. This
is a property of the functionality, and any protocol that realizes
Finherits it.
The cryptographic claim is that the protocol leaks no more
thanF. The operational claim is that the leakage ofFis
bounded by the query allowanceQ. The first rests on IND-
CPA. The second rests on a measurement.
F . What a Fellow Client Learns
Theorem 2 bounds a deviating coalition bynegl(λ) +
δ(Qtot)without characterisingδ. This subsection characterises
it. A coalition of clients is the adversary the cryptography
constrains least, because its members hold key shares, run the
backbone themselves, and receive answers by design.
A client outside the coalition contributes four things to what
the coalition sees: (i) the public sample countn j, which the
protocol uses as a public scalar, (ii) the ciphertexts it uploads,
which are computationally independent of what they encrypt,
(iii) its share of the announced indexa ⋆ and of the phase
signals, and (iv) its part of every answer the coalition is
given. It contributes no per-class total, because Section III-B
inverts those under encryption and never decrypts them, and
no adapter, because no adapter aggregate exists.
The allowance alone does not bound what the answers
reveal. Membership inference from predicted labels is an
established attack on a classifier that answers queries [36], and
the allowance does not control its cost. We therefore bound
the channel at the head rather than at the budget.
Proposition 2(The query channel is no stronger than the
head).LetAcorrupt at mostt−1clients in definition 2,
with the server honest, and let it ask at mostQ tot = (t−1)Q
queries. Then there is an adversaryBthat receives both shared
heads in plaintext together withL, asks no query, and satisfies
Adv(A)≤Adv(B) + negl(λ).
Proof.The proof of theorem 2 splits the view ofAinto the
key-generation transcript, the honest clients’ ciphertexts, the
values the honest server computes, and the answers to its own
queries. The first three are independent ofbup tonegl(λ),
andBproduces them fromLand from encryptions of zero
exactly as the simulator of theorem 1 does.
Proof.The proof of theorem 2 splits the view ofAinto the
key-generation transcript, the honest clients’ ciphertexts, the
values the honest server computes, and the answers to its own
queries. The first three are independent ofbup tonegl(λ),
andBproduces them fromLand from encryptions of zero
exactly as the simulator of theorem 1 does.
Each answer isarg max c(θ⋆
a⋆ φa⋆
j (xi))c for a queryx i that
Aasks at one of its own clientsj. Undera ⋆ =Athe map
is the public backbone. Undera ⋆ =B, the map composes
the backbone with the adapter of clientj, and that client is
corrupt.Bholds that adapter, holds both heads by assumption,
and readsa ⋆ fromL.Btherefore computes every answer itself.
BrunsA, answers each query as the server would, and
returns whateverAreturns. The simulation is exact outside
the negligible event on which the first three parts of the view
differ.
Btherefore runsA, answers each query as the server would,
and returns whateverAreturns. The simulation is exact outside
the negligible event on which the first three parts of the view
differ.
Writeδ wb for the advantage of the best polynomial-time
adversary that holds both shared heads. Proposition 2 gives
δ(Qtot)≤δ wb at every budget. What a coalition learns about
an honest client is capped by what the shared head itself
reveals, and that cap does not depend on the allowance. The
allowance determines the cost of approaching the cap, and
Section V-F measures that cost.
Two consequences follow for a deployment. Lowering the
thresholdtraisesQ tot and moves a coalition toward the cap
without moving the cap itself. Raising the allowanceQhas the
same effect. Neither parameter changes what a coalition can
ultimately learn, and both determine only the cost of learning
it.
1) Membership Inference Against the Shared Heads in
Plaintext:We measureδ wb and obtain an advantage indis-
tinguishable from random guessing. The adversary in propo-
sition 2 receives both shared heads in plaintext. We give an
attacker exactly that and run the likelihood-ratio membership
attack of Carlini et al. [37] against it. We build64shadow
federations per cell, each oneNclients training on half of
their own examples followed by the merge of eq. (1), and
we test2000candidates over three tasks, three seeds and
both arrangements. The attack reaches an area under the curve
between0.49and0.53, and a true-positive rate between0.008
and0.023at a false-positive rate of0.01. A true-positive rate
equal to the false-positive rate indicates random guessing.
Disclosing a head is a counterfactual, and we measure there
deliberately. No party ever holds either head. The measurement
therefore describes the setting in which the encryption has
already been defeated. Proposition 2 states that the query chan-
nel is no stronger than that setting. Measuring the strongest
adversary the proposition admits therefore bounds every adver-
sary the protocol admits, and that bound is random guessing.
A coalition that first extracts a copy obtains no greater
advantage. We fit a copy of the head to2×10 5 label-only
answers, the largest budget of Section V-F, and attack the
copy. The area under the curve moves to between0.49and
0.50, and the true-positive rate at a false-positive rate of0.01to
between0.009and0.017. Extraction costs the attacker queries
and yields no membership advantage. Proposition 2 predicts
this, and no published measurement had reported it.
The strongest label-only attack in the literature obtains no
greater advantage, and the reason is specific. OSLO crafts one
query per candidate rather than reading a statistic off a model,
and it reports a true-positive rate of6.7per cent at a false-
positive rate of0.001on CIFAR-100 where the previous best
label-only attack reports0.3[38]. Our serving interface is more

===== PAGE 10 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 10
exposed to it than an ordinary one, because a client uploads
its own encrypted feature vector and theorem 2 lets a coalition
deviate in the queries it asks. The crafted point enters directly.
Over eighteen cells, the attack reaches an area under the curve
between0.47and0.52.
The calibration of the attack explains this. A coalition
chooses its one perturbation on data it holds, where it knows
for every surrogate which examples that surrogate trained on.
The best separation it achieves there is0.065at most and
below0.01in most cells. The crafted query does transfer to
the served head. No difference in margin between a member
and a non-member exists for it to exploit.
We report one figure that we do not treat as a result.
Predicting membership from whether the head classifies an
example correctly reaches an area under the curve of0.72
on Banking77. Our holdout reserves at least one example of
every class a client holds. Held-out examples are richer in
rare classes than trained ones, and the rule separates them for
a reason unrelated to membership. The likelihood-ratio attack
calibrates each example against its own shadow distributions
and does not inherit the confound.
The coverage-weighted merge permits a sharper attack, and
we measure that the attack recovers nothing. A class that one
client alone holds takes its row from that client’s displacement,
with no averaging over the federation, and for a linear map
with a bias the ratio of the row displacement to the bias
displacement is a weighted mean of that client’s features [39].
We compute that ratio for all570class rows of the three
tasks. It matches the closest example of its own class better
than the closest example of another class by0.012in cosine
where one client holds the class, and by0.006where six or
more do, against an absolute cosine of0.16and a random-
direction baseline of0.029. The row points into the subspace
the features occupy. It identifies neither a class nor a record.
Three other attack families require structure this construc-
tion does not provide, and we state which structure in each
case. Reconstruction from weights is the first. The strongest
published attack in our exact setting recovers training images
from heads trained on frozen768-dimensional embeddings,
and its authors report that it fails on linear probes and name
linear models as a mitigation [40]. Their own governing ratio
is the parameter count over the unknowns, which for a linear
head reduces to the class count over the client’s sample count.
Ours is about0.01, and the smallest ratio at which they recover
anything is0.5.
Attribute inference is the second. Against a model trained
on features of this kind, the black-box attack performs at the
base rate,0.28against a base rate of0.28on one dataset and
0.05against0.06on another [41]. The variant that outperforms
imputation reads individual hidden-layer activations, and a
single linear map has none.
Gradient inversion is the third, and it does not apply here.
Every attack in that line needs gradients with respect to
parameters that see the input, or a model the server chose [42],
[43]. The backbone here is public and fixed, every client
runs the same one, and the only uploaded object is a trained
displacement of a map placed after the last nonlinearity.
Two limits apply to these numbers. A thousand members
resolve a true-positive rate no finer than0.001. Every figure
we report at a false-positive rate of0.001counts two to four
examples rather than a rate. The shadow federations vary who
trains on what while holding the coverage pattern fixed, so
they say nothing about how leakage moves when the partition
moves.
The three measurements agree. Even after successful ex-
traction, and even when we disclose a head in plaintext, the
membership attack of Carlini et al. [37] remains near random
guessing. The head is a linear map fitted for two hundred
steps over thousands of examples per class, and the coverage-
weighted merge produces no row a coalition can read.
G. What a Decryption Carries
The protocol decrypts twice. The selection step decrypts
one scalar, and each answer is key-switched to the client that
asked for it. Both are intended outputs. In an exact scheme
that would end the discussion, because a decryption returns the
message and nothing else. CKKS is approximate. A decryption
returns the message together with an error term, and that term
is a function of the secret key and of the values the circuit
consumed. Li and Micciancio show that an adversary which
observes decryption results recovers the key that produced
them [44].
Their attack does not need the message. It reads the ring
elementc 0 +c 1sout of the decoded output and inverts it. An
argument that the adversary cannot predict what the circuit
should have produced does not answer it. The attack does
not apply here, for a structural reason. It recovers whichever
key performed the decryption. Every decryption here happens
after a collective key switch that moves the ciphertext off the
collective key. The key it recovers is the querying client’s own,
which that client already holds. The collective keysnever
appears in a relation the coalition can invert, andEnc(θ ⋆)is
never decrypted at all.
The published threshold attack does not apply either, for a
separate reason. It identifies ciphertexts whose noise is exactly
zero and reads a linear equation in the key off each one [45].
Detecting a zero-noise ciphertext requires a rounding step
whose success can be observed, which exact schemes have
and CKKS does not. Their statement about threshold CKKS
covers the case where no smudging is applied.
The remaining issue is a condition on the smudging pa-
rameter, and our implementation does not meet it. The key-
switch simulator of the multiparty scheme we build on is
correct when the smudging noise dominates the noise of the
ciphertext being switched, which is what lets it produce an
honest client’s share without knowing that noise [22]. That
scheme sets the requirement at2 λ/2 times the ciphertext
noise. Our implementation smudges at eight times the fresh-
encryption noise, which is the value the library uses in its
own tests, and the serving circuit leaves a ciphertext noise
several orders of magnitude larger than that. The simulation
step of theorem 1 therefore rests on a hypothesis our measured
configuration does not satisfy. What the step would otherwise
hide is the circuit noise, which depends on the honest clients’
displacements. Whether that is exploitable is open, and the
scheme’s authors record it as open as well.

===== PAGE 11 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 11
Meeting the stated requirement is not a matter of raising
one constant. At a plaintext scale of2 45 the required smudging
exceeds the scale itself. It would destroy the answer rather than
protect it. A configuration that satisfies the condition needs a
larger scale and modulus, and every cost in Section V-E would
move with them. The tension is recorded in the literature rather
than particular to us. Threshold CKKS is insecure under this
notion when no smudging is applied, and flooding sized to
the rule is expected to cost the precision of the decrypted
result [45]. We report the configuration we measured and state
the gap. We do not claim a guarantee we did not instantiate.
Repeating a query converts that gap into a key recovery, and
we give the arithmetic because it determines which control
the deployment needs. Write the served ciphertext as(c 0, c1)
under the collective keys. The querier decryptsc 0 +c 1s+E,
whereEcollects the honest parties’ smudging terms. The
serving circuit is deterministic. A client that resubmits an
identical query receives the samec 0 andc 1 and a freshly drawn
E. Averagingkrepetitions drivesEto zero and converges on
c0 +c 1sexactly. The noise of the ciphertext is not a separate
term. The quantityc 0 +c 1sis the plaintext together with
that noise. An adversary that holdsc 0 andc 1 subtracts and
rounds, obtainsc 1s, and recoverssby one ring inversion. The
server holdsc 0 andc 1, and definition 1 corrupts the server
together witht−1clients. This view falls inside the model.
The protocol also permits a client to resubmit a query, so the
adversary remains semi-honest.
The cost is the number of repetitions that drives the averaged
error below half a unit in each of the2 15 coefficients, which
is on the order of81σ 2 for a resampled part of standard
deviationσ. At eight times the fresh-encryption noise and
a quorum of ten that is about5×10 5 repetitions, which
is the same order as the query budgets Section V-F already
contemplates. A duplicate check is therefore a required control
and not a supplementary one. Re-randomizing a query defeats
the check but not the control, because a re-randomized query is
a different ciphertext and yields one independent sample rather
than a repetition, and independent samples are the regime the
flooding is sized for. Sizing that flooding forqdecryptions
costs half a bit for each doubling ofq, and the budget is
refreshed by rekeying once it is spent [46].
Raising the smudging is the second control, and it costs
nothing on any axis the deployment measures. The values this
protocol decrypts are one index and one label. The precision
the answer needs is a handful of bits against a plaintext scale
of2 45. Moving the smudging from eight times the fresh-
encryption noise to2 25 multiplies the required repetitions by
roughly2 40 and still leaves twenty bits of the scale. It changes
neither latency nor traffic, and it does not change the accuracy
of the served answers, because the answer is an argmax rather
than a score. It does not meet the2 λ/2 rule, and we do not
claim that it does. It removes the attack above at no cost,
which is a weaker statement, and it is the configuration we
recommend.
One deviation the theorems do not cover remains. Collective
key generation has each party publish a share of the public key,
and the shares are summed. A party that publishes last, after
seeing the others, can subtract their contribution and leave
a public key whose secret it holds alone. Every ciphertext
uploaded under that key is then readable by that party, and the
deviation is detected only later, when the honest decryption
shares fail to reconstruct, by which time the uploads have
been read. The standard remedy is to commit the shares before
opening them, which costs one round and is independent of
the ring parameters. Theorem 2 lets a coalition deviate in the
shares it contributes, and its proof disposes of that deviation
for decryption shares, where a wrong share aborts the query.
Key-generation shares are not covered by that argument, and
a deployment that omits the commitment round falls outside
the theorem.
V. EXPERIMENTS
Each subsection below states a claim in one sentence, de-
scribes the experiment that tests it, and reports the result. The
claims are, in order, that a federated head over local represen-
tations is a usable model , that its accuracy is competitive with
one-shot federated learning on that literature’s own partition,
that the federation can choose between arrangements without
decrypting either, that the cryptographic layer is affordable,
including the traffic that recurs, and that what a participant
can learn is bounded. Section V-G then states what disclosing
the model would have bought, and Section V-H records what
the protocol does not cover.
A. Setup
The trainable unit is a rank-8low-rank adapter with its
down-projection frozen at a shared public initialization [47],
together with a classifier head. We do not use any labelled
public data.
We evaluate on four text classification tasks of increasing
label-space size, AG-News with4classes [48], TREC with
6[49], DBpedia with14[48] and Banking77 with77[50],
using a frozen RoBERTa-base encoder [23], and on CIFAR-
100 [51] with a frozen ViT-B/16 [24]. Each text task draws at
most20,000training and5,000test examples under the seed,
and each vision task at most10,000and2,000. Only TREC
and Banking77 fall below these caps, and we use those whole.
Data are partitioned across clients by a Dirichlet distribution
over labels with concentrationα, the standard label-skew
partition [52], [53], which induces label-distribution skew in
the usual taxonomy [54] and holds the feature distribution
fixed across clients. A smallerαleaves each client with a
few dominant classes and almost none of the rest. Unless
stated otherwise, there areN= 10clients,α= 0.1, the local
trajectory is200steps, and every number is the mean over
three seeds. Each client reserves at least one held-out example
from every class it holds, as Section III-D requires, and tops
the held-out set up to one tenth of its shard at random.
We writeA sel for the accuracy of the servable arrange-
ment that Section V-D selects. Three reference points appear
throughout, and none of them is servable under the threat
model of Section IV. We writeA loc for the accuracy a client
obtains alone. We writeA dis for the accuracy of the disclosed
model, in which the adapter and the head are both aggregated

===== PAGE 12 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 12
TABLE II
ACCURACY ON THE GLOBAL TEST SET,THREE SEEDS,N= 10,α= 0.1.
THE SERVABLE COLUMNS ARE THE TWO ARRANGEMENTS THE PROTOCOL
ANSWERS QUERIES FROM,AND BOLD MARKS THE BETTER ONE. THE
REFERENCE COLUMNS ARE NOT SERVABLE UNDER THE THREAT MODEL
OFSECTIONIV. ALONE IS ONE CLIENT’S OWN MODEL WITH NO
FEDERATION,DISCLOSED IS THE MERGED MODEL THIS PROTOCOL
DECLINES TO BUILD,AND POOLED IS CENTRALISED TRAINING ON THE
UNION OF THE DATA. ON ONE SEED THEDIRICHLET DRAW ASSIGNS
FEWER THAN TWENTY SAMPLES TO SOME CLIENTS,WHICH CANNOT
TRAIN,SO THE EFFECTIVE FEDERATION IS SEVEN ONAG-NEWS AND
NINE ONTREC.
servable reference
TaskCshared personal alone disclosed pooled
head adapter
AG-News 40.6490.479 0.475 0.739 0.921
TREC 60.6070.429 0.400 0.711 0.967
DBpedia 140.7890.754 0.451 0.925 0.988
Banking77 77 0.2060.6860.249 0.760 0.923
CIFAR-100 100 0.7480.7740.197 0.784 0.893
and decrypted. We writeA pool for the accuracy of one model
trained on the union of the clients’ data.
Two differences follow, and the paper reports both. The
quantityA dis −A sel is the price of never disclosing a model.
The quantityA pool −A dis is the price of the partition.
B. Utility of the Federated Head
Sharing only the classifier head, over representations that
each client adapts locally, yields a model usable across the
whole label space, and the preferable arrangement depends on
the size of the label space.
Table II reports both servable arrangements and both refer-
ence points. The arrangement labelledshared headgives every
client the same head over the bare public backbone.Personal
adaptergives each client the shared head over its own locally
adapted representation.
Three observations follow. First, the federation raises accu-
racy on every task. A client alone reaches0.20to0.48, while
the federated head reaches0.61to0.79on four of the five
tasks. The gap is largest exactly where a client’s own data
covers least of the label space.
Second, the preferable arrangement changes with the size of
the label space. On the small label spaces the shared head wins,
0.17on AG-News and0.18on TREC. The AG-News margin
rests on two of the three seeds, because the third partition
drops three clients. On the large ones the personal adapter
wins. The shared head collapses to0.206while the personal
adapter holds0.686. The collapse is not a coverage failure. We
count the holders of every class row and find three or more
on two of the three Banking77 seeds, and at least one on all
of them, so the merge has evidence for every row. The bare
public backbone is what fails. It does not separate seventy-
seven intents with a linear map, and serving over each client’s
own adapter reaches0.686on the same data.
Third, the two failure modes are complementary. The shared
head fails when the public backbone alone does not separate
the label space. The personal adapter fails when each client’s
representation drifts far enough that a common head no longer
TABLE III
STANDARD DEVIATION OVER THE THREE SEEDS OF TABLEII,IN
PARENTHESES BESIDE EACH MEAN. THE SPREAD IS BELOW0.03
EVERYWHERE EXCEPTAG-NEWS ANDTREC. ONAG-NEWS THE
SHARED HEAD REACHES0.809,0.736AND0.402,AND THE THIRD
PARTITION IS THE ONE THAT DROPS THREE CLIENTS.
Task shared head personal adapter alone disclosed
AG-News0.649(0.217)0.479(0.021)0.475(0.006)0.739(0.073)
TREC0.607(0.074)0.429(0.068)0.400(0.051)0.711(0.043)
DBpedia0.789(0.019)0.754(0.014)0.450(0.009)0.925(0.020)
Banking770.206(0.030)0.686(0.012)0.249(0.005)0.760(0.018)
CIFAR-1000.748(0.010)0.774(0.003)0.197(0.009)0.784(0.004)
transfers. Neither arrangement dominates the other, so the
federation must select between them.
Table III gives the spread behind every entry of table II.
Three of the five tasks vary by less than0.03on every
arrangement. AG-News is the exception, and the cause is the
partition rather than the training. One of its three Dirichlet
draws leaves seven usable clients, and the shared head reaches
0.402on that draw against0.809and0.736on the other two.
The estimator selects the personal adapter on that seed, which
is whyA sel exceeds the shared head’s mean on AG-News.
a) The public initializer:θ 0 is the state every client starts
from, and its head is the default random initialization of a
linear layer under the shared public seed. It is not zero. A row
that no client updates therefore keeps a random direction and
still competes in the argmax. The count above shows that no
such row occurs in our runs, so the choice does not affect any
number we report, and a deployment with uncovered classes
should set those rows to zero rather than leave them random.
b) How many clients decide a row:The merge is
coverage weighted, so a row decided by one client carries
that client’s displacement alone. We counted the holders of
every class row on the partitions the accuracy numbers were
measured on. On AG-News, TREC and DBpedia every class
is held by three or more clients on every seed. On Banking77
the same holds on one seed, and the other two leave two
classes with two holders and one class with a single holder.
No class anywhere is held by nobody. Coverage is therefore
not what limits the shared head on the large label spaces, and
Section IV-F reads the same counts as the bound on what a
single-holder row could reveal.
c) Sensitivity:Figure 4 varies the protocol axes around
the default on DBpedia. Accuracy falls with skew, from0.970
atα= 1.0to0.789atα= 0.1. Longer local training helps.
Accuracy rises with the size of the federation, from0.803at
N= 10to0.882atN= 50. That row is a single seed, which
is why itsN= 10value differs from table II.
The more informative reading concerns which arrangement
the estimator selects. The estimator chooses the shared head
atα∈ {0.05,0.1}and the personal adapter atα∈ {0.3,1.0},
on every seed in each case. The crossover is therefore not
a property of the label space alone, as Section V-B might
suggest, but of coverage. The personal adapter is preferable
once each client sees enough of the label space for its own
representation to transfer, and the shared head is preferable
when it does not. The estimator locates that crossover from

===== PAGE 13 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 13
TABLE IV
SENSITIVITY ONDBPEDIA ALONG THE PROTOCOL AXES,EACH VARIED
AROUND THE DEFAULT OFN= 10,α= 0.1AND200LOCAL STEPS. THE
ROW REPORTS THE ACCURACY OF THE ARRANGEMENT THE ESTIMATOR
SELECTS. THE SKEW ROW IS THE MEAN OVER THREE SEEDS. THE
LOCAL-STEPS AND CLIENT-COUNT ROWS ARE A SINGLE SEED,AND THEIR
DEFAULT CELLS ARE THAT SEED’S VALUE RATHER THAN THE
THREE-SEED MEAN.
Label skewα
0.05 0.10 0.30 1.00
selected arrangement0.814 0.789 0.915 0.970
selected shared shared personal personal
ClientsN
10 20 50
selected arrangement0.803 0.826 0.882
Local steps
100 200 400
selected arrangement0.710 0.803 0.871
TABLE V
CIFAR-10ON TWO PUBLISHED PARTITIONS,THREE SEEDS,ON THE
WHOLE10,000-IMAGE TEST SET. THE COLUMNS ARE THE QUANTITIES
DEFINED INSECTIONV-A,ALL MEASURED ON OUR PROTOCOL AT THE
PARTITION EACH PRIOR PAPER PUBLISHED.
N α A loc Asel Adis Adis −A sel
5 0.10 0.384 0.949 0.963 0.013
5 0.30 0.570 0.952 0.966 0.015
20 0.04 0.212 0.950 0.947−0.003
20 0.16 0.397 0.953 0.961 0.007
encrypted local evidence, with no test set and no fitted
threshold.
C. Comparison with One-Shot Federated Learning
The protocol gives up no accuracy for protecting the con-
tributions, where the differentially private one-shot methods
give up an amount that grows as their budget tightens. The
peer group evaluates on different tasks from ours, so we ran
our protocol on theirs. We adopt two published partitions of
CIFAR-10:N= 5withα∈ {0.1,0.3}, the configuration
of [15], andN= 20withα∈ {0.04,0.16}, the configuration
of [18].
AtN= 5andα= 0.1we measureA sel = 0.949,
against the0.503of [15]. We do not present that margin as a
result. Those methods train a ResNet-18 from scratch, whereas
every client here fine-tunes a frozen public ViT-B/16. Absolute
accuracy across papers therefore measures the backbone.
What compares across papers is the accuracy each method
gives up for protecting the contribution, since every paper
measures that against its own unprotected baseline on its own
architecture, and the backbone cancels. Read that way the
peer group falls into three cases. A method either leaves the
contribution unprotected, protects it with differential privacy,
or protects it cryptographically.
DENSE and FedDF report no such cost, because neither
sets out to protect the contribution. What each client sends, a
trained model in one case and repeated predictions over many
rounds in the other, is available to the server in plaintext, and
by the evidence of Section VI-A those are the quantities an
adversary would target.
FedAUXfdp does protect its contribution, and its cost is
governed by the budget. Against its own undefended baseline
of0.752on CIFAR-10 atN= 20andα= 0.16, the published
figures give up0.006atε= 1.0and0.029atε= 0.5, then
0.413atε= 0.1and0.626atε= 0.01[18].
Our contribution is protected cryptographically, and that
protection costs no accuracy, by construction, since the de-
crypted result matches the plaintext computation to the en-
coding precision of the scheme. Withholding the model is a
separate charge, and no method above incurs it. Over table V
the charge lies between−0.003and0.015, and over table II
between0.03and0.14.
a) A partition at which the charge is negative:At
N= 20andα= 0.04we measureA sel > A dis, by0.003
on average, on two seeds of three. The mechanism is the
following. At that concentration each client holds close to
a single class, so the aggregate of the adapters moves the
representation toward every local task at once and improves
none of them. The arrangement that leaves the public backbone
unchanged avoids this, and it is the arrangement the estimator
selects. We record one property of this cell: the Dirichlet draw
atα= 0.04assigns fewer than twenty samples to some clients,
which cannot train, so the effective federation size is17to19
rather than20.
One difference bounds the federation’s own contribution
independently of the backbone, because we measure both of
its terms on the same backbone. AtN= 5andα= 0.1we
measureA loc = 0.384againstA sel = 0.949. That difference
is what the protocol supplies.
b) Selection on these partitions:The estimator of Sec-
tion V-D selects correctly in11of the12cells behind table V.
The exception isN= 5withα= 0.3on one seed, where
the selected arrangement reaches0.945and the other reaches
0.953.
D. Accuracy of the Selection Rule
The direct procedure for choosing between the two arrange-
ments fails systematically, and the estimator of Section III-D
corrects it while disclosing only the index of the selected
arrangement. We establish the failure first, since it is what mo-
tivates the estimator. Each client measures both arrangements
on data held back from its own training and the federation
takes the sample-weighted majority. Across all fifteen cells of
table II, this procedure selects the personal adapter every time,
including on AG-News and TREC where the personal adapter
is0.17and0.18worse. Weighting each class equally within
a client’s held-out set does not help, and selects identically.
The failure is structural. The shared arrangement is one
model, and the union of the clients’ data is the whole training
set, so pooled held-out measurements estimate its accuracy on
the global distribution to within0.02on average. The personal
arrangement isNdifferent models, and clientj’s held-out
data measures only clientj’s own model, on clientj’s own
distribution, which is the distribution that model was fitted
to. Its measured accuracy exceeds its true global accuracy by
0.28on average. A client’s held-out set also contains only the
classes that client holds, so the client cannot measure locally

===== PAGE 14 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 14
10 20 50
clients N
0.4
0.6
0.8accuracy
(a)
0.05 0.1 0.3 1
label skew α
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
(b)
100 200 400
local steps K
0.4
0.6
0.8
(c)
4 14 100
classes
30
100
300
1000seconds per query
(d)
selected disclosed alone sequential tournament
Fig. 4. The protocol along four axes. Panels (a) to (c) vary the federation size, the label skew and the local trajectory on DBpedia aroundN= 10,α= 0.1
and200steps. Panel (d) gives the cost of one encrypted argmax against the label space, atN= 10and ring degree2 15 under collective refresh, for the
tournament and for the sequential fold it replaces. Panels (a) and (c) are one seed and panel (b) is the mean over three.
TABLE VI
CHOOSING BETWEEN THE TWO SERVABLE ARRANGEMENTS WITHOUT
DECRYPTING EITHER. CELLS ARE COUNTED OVER THE FIVE TASKS AND
THE FOURCIFAR-10PARTITIONS,AT THREE SEEDS EACH. REGRET IS
THE ACCURACY GIVEN UP BY A WRONG CHOICE,AVERAGED OVER SEEDS
AND SUMMED OVER THE NINE SETTINGS.
Selection rule correct cells regret
majority of held-out accuracies 8/27 0.470
same, class-balanced within a client 11/27 0.454
global-prior estimator, zero fill 23/27 0.029
global-prior estimator, rare-class fill24/27 0.021
the quantity that decides the comparison, which is accuracy on
classes it has never seen. The procedure compares an accurate
number against an optimistic one, so it is not close to correct
and it does not become correct with more held-out data.
Table VI reports the estimator of eq. (2) against that base-
line. Scoring both arrangements under the federation’s own
class prior, letting the shared arrangement pool evidence across
clients and scoring the personal arrangement’s unobserved
classes at zero, selects correctly in12of15cells. Filling the
unobserved classes from each client’s rarest classes instead of
with zero selects correctly in13. Both are parameter-free in
the sense that matters: the rule compares two numbers on the
same absolute accuracy scale, with no fitted threshold.
Two properties of the estimator merit separate mention. The
decisive case is Banking77, where choosing wrongly costs
0.48. The estimator selects correctly on all three seeds, by
margins of0.13to0.24. And the estimator responds to the
data On the AG-News seed where the partition drops three
clients and leaves the shared head at0.402and the personal
adapter genuinely better, it switches to the personal adapter,
which a rule keyed to the number of classes would not do.
The estimator yields a calibrated accuracy estimate, not
only a ranking. Its estimate of the shared arrangement’s global
accuracy is within0.019on average across the fifteen cells of
the five tasks and within0.005across the twelve CIFAR-10
cells, computed entirely from encrypted local evidence with
no access to a test set.
The twelve CIFAR-10 cells separate the two rules more
sharply than the five tasks do. The shared head over the bare
backbone wins in eleven of them, and the majority of held-out
accuracies chooses the personal adapter in all twelve, so it is
correct once. The estimator is correct eleven times, and its one
error costs0.006. The failure of the vote is not a matter of
close calls. A client measures the personal arrangement on its
own data, where that arrangement is at its best, and the vote
is the sum of twelve such measurements.
a) One index for the federation, or one per client:A
client could adopt its own winner instead, revealing one index
per client rather than one globally. We measured that rule.
It selects the personal arrangement almost everywhere: ten
clients out of ten on twelve of the fifteen cells, nine of ten
on two, and seven of seven on the AG-News seed that drops
three clients. It reaches0.542on AG-News at seed42where
the shared arrangement reaches0.809. The bias is the one
Section III-D names, and per-client scoring does not escape
it, because a client still measures the personal arrangement on
its own distribution. Which arrangement wins per client does
vary, and a deployment can see that variation, but a rule keyed
to it inherits the same optimism.
b) Packing and the setup traffic:A ciphertext at ring
degree2 15 carries2 14 slots, and the head hasCdentries at
d= 768. Four classes fit in one ciphertext, a hundred need
five, and the server adds them independently, which is why the
cost of Section V-E grows withCthrough the argmax rather
than through the addition. The head application is a slot-wise
product followed by a rotate-and-sum overlog 2 drotations, so
the rotation key set is the ten power-of-two rotations that fold
a768-entry block. The344MiB each client sends at setup is
one public-key share of2.25MiB, one relinearization share of
54.0MiB over two rounds, and one Galois share of18.0MiB
for each of the rotations the fold needs. The relinearization
and Galois shares are what dominate, and neither recurs.
c) What selection costs:The count of2N Ccomparisons
is the count we measured, and the record carries it beside the
measurement. At five parties and a hundred classes the circuit
performs1000scalar comparisons, which is exactly2N C, in
81sequential sign circuits, and the whole phase takes17.5
minutes. It does not perform one encrypted argmax per held-
out example. Each client reserves one held-out example per
class, those examples pack into a single score ciphertext, and
the class accumulators are selected with plaintext masks the
client already knows. We measured this phase under collective
refresh rather than under the server-side bootstrapping the
protocol specifies, so its traffic is an upper bound and its wall

===== PAGE 15 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 15
clock a lower one.
d) What the selection upload is, and is not:Selection
costs each client a second encrypted message, and a reader
tracking the word one-shot is entitled to ask whether that
reopens the surface. It does not. The message carries per-
class counts of correct predictions on data the client held
back, which is a measurement of two finished candidates and
not a byproduct of training. No gradient, no update and no
intermediate state passes through it. The term one-shot in
this paper means that no intermediate training artifact is ever
exposed, and it is that surface the selection message stays
outside of.
e) Disclosure of the estimator:One value is decrypted
for the whole federation, the index of the arrangement adopted.
The per-client per-class accuracies are not decrypted, and this
matters. Together with the count matrix they
would describe each client’s label distribution alongside its
model quality.
E. Cryptographic Cost
The cryptographic cost of the protocol is dominated by
one-time setup, and the recurring per-query traffic is a few
megabytes. We do not simulate the cryptography. We imple-
ment the protocol in real multiparty CKKS on Lattigo [55],
[22]. All figures use ring degree2 14 for the shallow operations
and a deeper chain at ring degree2 15 for the circuits that need
it. Timings are single-run wall clock on one core of a V ALAR
CPU node. Communication figures are exact.
a) Cost of query encryption:Applying the head to an
encrypted query costs39.0ms against5.4ms for a plaintext
one, a factor of seven. That factor buys the property that the
server never sees the feature vector and therefore cannot invert
it to recover the client’s input, and it is small beside the argmax
that follows.
b) End-to-end query cost:On one core a query takes
400.8s at four classes and1468.3s at a hundred. The arith-
metic and the key switch account for0.24s of that at every
label-space size. Everything else is the encrypted argmax, and
97per cent of the argmax is the server restoring levels, which
it does17times at four classes and62times at a hundred.
The server restores them on its own, under bootstrapping keys
the clients generate once together, so no restoration costs a
round with the clients. The tournament needs⌈log 2 C⌉rounds
against theC−1of the sequential fold it replaces (fig. 4).
Against the closest published system, slytHErin evaluates a
twenty-layer network under the same multiparty arrangement
in245.58s at three parties and354.17s at twenty, batched on
twelve cores and returning the score vector [56], where our
400.8s and1468.3s cover one unbatched query on one core
and return only the label, which Section V-F shows costs an
adversary between16and260times more to recover. Their
batch amortizes to about0.95s per sample at ten parties, and
their cost lies in the network where ours lies in the argmax, so
the two figures size the setting rather than rank the systems.
They return a score vector, so they stop before the reduction
that is97per cent of our query. A system that returned a label
would pay it.
Three levers apply to that figure, and they differ in what
they move. Multi-core execution does not shorten the circuit,
because the rounds are sequential by construction and the
comparisons within one round are already packed into a single
operation on a single ciphertext. It applies inside each primi-
tive instead, across the residue moduli of the residue number
system decomposition, and our single-threaded measurement
uses none of it. Overlapping computation with communication
raises throughput rather than lowering latency, because the
level restorations lie on the critical path of one query, while the
server that answers many queries can pipeline them. Hardware
acceleration is the only lever that acts directly on the dominant
term. The argmax is bootstrap-bound, which is where a GPU
implementation helps most and, for the reason given below,
where we decline to project a single number.
c) The encrypted reciprocal:Inverting the per-class to-
tals under encryption, which Section III-B requires so that
no coalition can read the remaining client’s class histogram,
takes4.21s atN= 10and needs two collective refreshes.
It agrees with the plaintext reciprocal to a relative error of
1.9×10 −8, so it costs no accuracy. The figure grows slowly
with the federation,3.16s atN= 5and6.30s atN= 20,
because only the refreshes involve the clients. This is the one
deep operation in building the shared head, and it is paid once
per aggregation rather than per query, so a few seconds is
immaterial beside the local training it follows.
d) The argmax:The argmax is the one operation in the
protocol that is not shallow. Evaluated as a sequential fold
ofC−1comparisons it takes about16s per comparison,
which is roughly twenty-six minutes at a hundred classes.
Packing the logits into one ciphertext and reducing them by a
tournament lowers the number of sequential comparisons from
C−1to⌈log 2 C⌉and brings the same computation to under
two minutes at a hundred classes, a fourteenfold reduction.
Both figures restore levels by collective refresh, so the ratio
measures the reduction and not the mechanism. Because
homomorphic evaluation under a collectively generated key
is identical to evaluation under a single key, single-key results
carry over, and GPU implementations of the same reduction
report a full-vocabulary argmax in well under a second [57].
The tournament returns the largest logit, and the protocol
needs the index of it. Carrying the index through the fold costs
4.4per cent at four classes and9.4per cent at a hundred, and it
returns the index exactly at every class count we measured. We
measured this twice, once under collective refresh and once
under the server-side bootstrapping the protocol specifies, and
the premium is the same to within half a point although the
absolute latency differs thirteenfold. What the index costs is
therefore a property of the fold and not of the mechanism that
restores its levels.
e) The two axes that set the cost:The ring degree is
the security parameter, and the number of clients decides how
many shares a decryption needs. Figure 5 separates them, from
one measurement over the full grid.
The per-query arithmetic answers to the ring degree alone.
It roughly doubles with each doubling of the degree, and it
does not move withN: the encrypted product measures38.4,
39.0and39.2ms atN= 5,10and20.

===== PAGE 16 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 16
214 215 216
ring degree
100
101
102
103
104
time (ms, log scale)
39.0
82.5
175
33.1
71.6
150
5.4
10.9
22.2
0.7
1.2
4.2
per-query arithmetic  (at N = 10)
product, both encrypted
rotation
product, one plaintext
addition
214 215 216
ring degree
103
206
435
198
422
880
402
842
1,729
key switch returning one label
N = 5 N = 10 N = 20
Fig. 5. Per-operation cost against the two axes that set it, from one
measurement over the whole grid. Left: the per-query arithmetic atN= 10,
which the ring degree sets and the federation size does not touch. Right: the
key switch that returns one label, which grows with both. Read in seconds,
the left panel spans0.0007to0.18s and the right panel spans0.10to1.7s.
Neither is the cost of a query. The encrypted argmax between them takes
400s at four classes and1468s at a hundred, so one query totals400.8s and
1468.3s, of which the argmax is more than99per cent.
The key switch that returns a label answers to both, and
doubles with each. It runs from103ms at the smallest setting
to1.73s at the largest. Traffic follows the same law, at
2.0MiB per participating client, because each contributes
one independent share and the server only sums them. The
encrypted reciprocal grows more slowly,3.16s atN= 5
against6.30s atN= 20, since only its two refreshes involve
the clients.
f) Hardware acceleration:The figures above are single-
threaded CPU, and the argmax is the only operation slow
enough to matter, so the question is what specialised hardware
does to it. Since the cost of a CKKS operation grows with
the ring degree, the comparison is only meaningful at a fixed
one. Figure 5 gives our figures,39.0,82.5and174.9ms for a
ciphertext-by-ciphertext product at ring degrees2 14,2 15 and
216, and33.1,71.6and149.7ms for a rotation. Phantom,
a CUDA implementation of CKKS [58], reports the same
primitives at ring degree2 16 on an A100 between1.61and
8.56ms for the product and between1.53and8.49ms for
the rotation, the range running over modulus chains of29to
41levels. We give no single ratio against those figures. Ours
are single-threaded Lattigo at a chain we did not match to
theirs, and a cross-library ratio at unmatched depth is not a
measurement.
The circuit is bootstrap-bound, so one number sets the
accelerated figure. Level restoration is97per cent of a query
and costs23.1s on one core at every label-space size, against
the28.6s a full-slot bootstrap costs in OpenFHE at the same
ring degree and29levels [59]. We measure one restoration
under Phantom on an NVIDIA H100 at2.28s, at the ring
degree2 16 the protocol restores at, a factor of ten. Phantom
publishes no bootstrapping benchmark, and no GPU library
we found restores levels under collectively generated keys, so
this figure has no published counterpart.
The accelerated figure is arithmetic on that one measure-
ment rather than a ported implementation, and we give the
recipe so a reader can check it. A query performs17restora-
tions at four classes,35at fourteen and62at a hundred, and
the local evaluation that surrounds them costs10.1s,20.2s
and35.2s on one core. Replacing each restoration with the
H100 figure and leaving the local evaluation on the processor
gives17×2.28+10.1 = 48.9s,35×2.28+20.2 = 100.0s and
62×2.28 + 35.2 = 176.5s, against the400.8s and1468.3s
of table VIII. We ported the restoration and nothing else. The
local evaluation is then the larger half of a query above four
classes, and a full port would have to move it as well.
g) One query, end to end, on a real head:Every figure
above runs on synthetic vectors, so none of them says the
encrypted path answers a real query the way the plaintext
model does. We ran that comparison. On the recorded AG-
News head at seed42, ten parties, ring degree2 15 and
scale2 45, thirty-two encrypted answers over the two servable
arrangements all equal the plaintext answers. The hardest case
has a top-1 to top-2 gap of0.037, which the scaling takes
to0.0068, and its decoded index sits within3×10 −8 of
the integer. Nothing failed, so the resolution limit is bounded
below by that gap and not above.
Two of the sixteen answers under the shared arrangement
are queries the head itself gets wrong, and the encrypted path
reproduces those errors. That is what a faithful serving path
does. It agrees with the plaintext computation, not with the
ground truth.
h) Where this sits against published work:No published
system takes an argmax under encryption in a multiparty
scheme, so there is no matched number to compare with. The
nearest match on the primitive is NEXUS, which computes
the same sign-based argmax under CKKS at the same ring
degree2 16 and returns an encrypted one-hot vector, at54s
over a label space of30,522[57]. Three conditions separate
that figure from ours. It is single-key, so it runs no collective
key switching and no smudging. It uses32threads where we
use one core. And it is amortized over a batch of32inputs,
where we serve one query.
The multiparty systems that exist do not take the argmax.
POSEIDON answers a query in0.38s at ten parties, at ring
degree2 13 with six levels, and returns the prediction vector
after key-switching it to the querier [19]. slytHErin returns
scores in245.58s for a twenty-layer network at three model-
providers [56]. Two ring-degree doublings and the argmax it-
self separate the first from our figure, and the second evaluates
a whole network where we evaluate one linear map and then
compare its outputs. The cost we report is the cost of refusing
to release the scores.
i) Communication:The protocol is one-shot in the sense
of Section I. No intermediate training artifact is ever exposed.
It is not silent. Key generation precedes it, selection costs at
most2N Cencrypted comparisons, once, and serving costs
traffic per query.
We measured what that selection actually costs, because the
comparison count alone does not say. At five clients and four
classes it takes400s and moves3.4GiB. At twenty clients
and a hundred classes it takes7111s and moves145.4GiB.
The federation pays this once, before it answers anything, and
no part of it recurs per query.
The bound holds and the cost sits elsewhere. Our implemen-
tation evaluates321sequential sign circuits at twenty clients
and a hundred classes, where2N Callows4000comparisons.
What the count does not carry is depth. Each comparison under
CKKS is a polynomial approximation of the sign, every such

===== PAGE 17 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 17
TABLE VII
COMMUNICATION ATN= 10,ON THE FIFTEEN-MODULUS CHAIN AT
RING DEGREE2 15 THAT THE ENCRYPTED ARGMAX REQUIRES. SHARE
SIZES DO NOT DEPEND ON THE NUMBER OF CLIENTS. THE PER-QUERY
TOTAL DOES,BECAUSE THE QUORUM RETURNS ONE KEY-SWITCHING
SHARE EACH,AND IT DOES NOT DEPEND ON THE NUMBER OF CLASSES,
BECAUSE THE LEVEL RESTORATIONS ARE LOCAL TO THE SERVER.
When Item Per client
setup, once collective public key share4.25MiB
relinearization key share102.0MiB
rotation keys, seven of them238.0MiB
training, once encrypted head displacements12to44MiB
per query encrypted features, uploaded7.5MiB
encrypted label, returned1.0MiB
key-switching shares, ten5.0MiB
total per query13.5MiB
approximation consumes levels, and restoring them is99.8
per cent of the traffic above. This is the price the current
comparison literature charges [60], [61], and we pay it rather
than decrypt the two scores.
The selection is correct at every point we measured. It
decodes the winning arrangement in all twelve cells of the grid,
and the per-class totals it combines come back with a relative
error near10 −8. Section V-D reports which arrangement the
rule chooses and how often that choice is right. This paragraph
reports only that the encrypted evaluation reproduces it.
The training upload is the one row that moves with the
number of classes. A head displacement isCrows of768
values and a bias, and a ciphertext at ring degree2 15 carries
16,384slots, so a client sends⌈769C/16,384⌉ciphertexts for
each of the two arrangements and one further ciphertext for its
per-class counts. On the eight-modulus chain the aggregation
needs, a ciphertext is4.0MiB. That is three ciphertexts and
12MiB for AG-News, TREC, CIFAR-10 and DBpedia, nine
and36MiB for Banking77, and eleven and44MiB for CIFAR-
100. It is paid once and it is smaller than the rotation keys of
the setup in every case.
The per-query total is8.5 + 0.5NMiB, since the quorum
returns one key-switching share each. It is11.0MiB atN= 5
and18.5MiB atN= 20, and it is6.8MiB at ring degree
214 and27.0MiB at2 16. It does not vary with the number of
classes. Setup costs344MiB per client, once.
j) How this scales in the federation:Every per-party
quantity in table VII is independent of the client count. We
measured the grid atN∈ {5,10,20}, at ring degrees2 14,2 15
and2 16, and on both the aggregation and the serving chain,
and the collective public key share, the relinearization key
share, the rotation key share, the ciphertext sizes and the key-
switching share are the same at every client count. This is what
the structure of the scheme predicts, since a party’s share is
a function of the ring and the modulus chain and not of how
many parties there are, and the measurement confirms it rather
than discovering it.
Two consequences set the cost of a large federation. What
a client sends does not grow as clients are added, so setup
stays at344MiB for each of them and the federation’s total
key-generation traffic grows linearly inN, which is3.4GiB
TABLE VIII
THE TWO LEVEL-RESTORATION MECHANISMS ATN= 10,EVALUATION
AT RING DEGREE2 15. THE SPECIFIED DESIGN RESTORES LEVELS AT THE
SERVER UNDER COLLECTIVELY GENERATED BOOTSTRAPPING KEYS AT
RING DEGREE2 16. THE MEASURED ALTERNATIVE RESTORES THEM BY A
COLLECTIVE REFRESH,WHICH COSTS A SHARE FROM EVERY CLIENT.
LATENCY IS SINGLE-RUN WALL CLOCK ON ONE CORE OF AVALAR CPU
NODE.
C4 6 14 77 100
collective refresh, s31.2 47.3 63.7 112.4 113.0
server bootstrap, s400.8 612.5 832.4 1473.0 1468.3
bootstraps17 26 35 62 62
error, server bootstrap1.3to7.3×10 −5, against exact for the refresh
atN= 10and17GiB atN= 50. A query costs the querier a
fixed8.5MiB and the quorum one key-switching share each,
so per-query traffic grows linearly intand not inN. A
deployment that lowers the threshold for availability therefore
also lowers the traffic on every query, and Section IV-F states
what it costs in privacy, which is a shorter distance to the same
cap rather than a higher cap.
One design decision governs the recurring figure. The
argmax spends its levels and must have them restored several
times per query. Restoring them by a collective refresh requires
a share from every client for every refresh, which at a hundred
classes amounts to roughly1.6GiB of traffic for a single label.
Generating bootstrapping keys once, collectively, and letting
the server restore levels on its own reduces that traffic to
zero, because evaluation under a collectively generated key
is identical to evaluation under a single key. The protocol
specifies the latter. We have now measured both, and the trade
is not one-sided.
Table VIII reports the specified design beside the one the
earlier figures were taken on. Restoring levels at the server
costs about thirteen times the latency at every label-space
size, from400.8s against31.2s at four classes to1468.3s
against113.0s at a hundred. The bootstrapping keys cost
8.70GiB, generated collectively in46s, against a stored figure
of15.5MiB that measured the extended secret key rather than
the key set the server evaluates with. The saving is real and
it is in traffic. One key generation of8.70GiB removes about
1.6GiB from every subsequent query, so the two designs break
even near the sixth query and the specified one wins after
it. Precision moves as well. The collective refresh reproduces
the plaintext maximum exactly, and the server-side bootstrap
agrees to7.3×10 −5.
k) Which mechanism produced the reported latency:
Every latency above is the specified design, in which the server
restores levels on its own under the collectively generated keys.
Table VIII sets it beside the collective refresh, which is about
thirteen times faster and costs a share from every client at
every restoration. We report the specified design because it
is the one the method describes, and because a protocol that
moved gigabytes to the clients on every query would not be
servable at the federation sizes this paper considers. Every
figure is single-core, and the restoration is the part that would
gain most from threads.

===== PAGE 18 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 18
TABLE IX
LABEL-ONLY EXTRACTION OF THE SERVED HEAD. MEAN FIDELITY OVER
THREE SEEDS AND BOTH ARRANGEMENTS,AGAINST THE NUMBER OF
QUERIES SPENT. THE MAJORITY COLUMN IS THE SHARE OF THE MOST
COMMON LABEL,WHICH IS WHAT A COPY ACHIEVES FOR FREE.
TaskCmajority10 3 5×10 3 2×10 4 5×10 4 2×10 5
AG-News 40.488 0.635 0.823 0.936 0.973 0.993
DBpedia 140.250 0.387 0.612 0.804 0.901 0.971
Banking77 770.083 0.174 0.355 0.592 0.755 0.900
l) Correctness:The encrypted argmax agrees with the
plaintext maximum to7.3×10 −5, which is far below the
gap between adjacent logits, so it selects the same class. The
accuracy figures of table II are therefore unaffected by the
cryptography.
F . Leakage Through the Served Answers
The protocol exposes no training-time artifact and no model,
so the only remaining channel is the sequence of answers the
served model returns, and that channel is bounded by the query
allowance rather than eliminated. The training-time surface is
removed by construction. No gradient, update, or data-derived
summary is ever available in plaintext, there is one exchange
rather than many, and its single artifact is a ciphertext. The
model is removed as well: no party holds it in plaintext at any
point, so the white-box attacks that a released model admits
have no object to attack. What remains is a client that can ask
the served model questions and read labels.
Two distinct bounds apply to this channel, and they should
not be conflated. The first is cryptographic and is stated in
theorem 1: the protocol’s messages are computationally inde-
pendent of the private data. The second is not cryptographic.
A client that queries the served model at points of its own
choosing can, with enough queries, reconstruct a functional
copy of the shared head. Returning only the label rather than
the logits denies the linear solve that would otherwise recover
the head in as many queries as the feature dimension, which
raises the cost but does not make it infinite. We therefore state
the guarantee as a bound on queries, and we measure what that
bound has to be.
a) Cost of extraction:We give the adversary every
advantage the protocol admits. It is a participating client, so
it computes query features itself and may submit an arbitrary
vector rather than a real input, and it is charged one query
per label. It fits a linear model to the labelled queries and we
score the copy byfidelity, the rate at which it agrees with the
served model on held-out features. Table IX reports the result.
Extraction is possible and its cost is orderly. Reaching
fidelity0.90takes about1.2×10 4 queries on AG-News,
5.0×10 4 on DBpedia and2.0×10 5 on Banking77. Those
figures track the size of the head rather than the task. The
head hasCdparameters, and in each case fidelity0.90costs
between three and five times that number of queries, with0.80
costing roughly1.5times and0.95roughly ten times. The
multiplier is a function of the target, not a constant. Writing
εfor the shortfall from a perfect copy, our three tasks fit
Q≈0.4Cd/εacross the measured range. A deployment can
therefore set its allowance fromC,dand the fidelity it is
willing to concede, without repeating this experiment, and an
allowance set for one target does not carry to another. A pub-
lished measurement of the same interface agrees. Extracting
a softmax model from class labels alone costs100queries
per parameter for agreement above99.9per cent [27], and
the curve here reaches0.993at65queries per parameter on
AG-News.
The allowance follows. A coalition oft−1clients, the
largest that cannot decrypt, commands(t−1)Qqueries, so
holding it below fidelity0.90atN= 10requiresQbelow
roughly1.3×10 3 per client on AG-News and2.2×10 4 on
Banking77. The binding case is the small label space. A head
with few rows is cheap to copy. It is also the case in which the
shared arrangement is preferable (table II), so the deployments
that gain most from the federation are the ones that must meter
queries most tightly.
Fidelity measures agreement with the served model, and
nothing more. A copy at fidelity0.90reproduces nine in ten
of the served model’s decisions, including its mistakes. It does
not follow that the adversary has learned any client’s data.
The recovered object is a linear map over a public feature
space, fitted from labels the adversary requested at points it
chose itself, and no client record enters the attack at any stage.
Turning a copy into a statement about a particular record is the
separate problem of membership inference or reconstruction.
That problem needs a surface this protocol does not expose,
since no gradient, update or data-derived summary is ever
available in plaintext. Section IV-F1 measures it and finds it
at chance.
b) What a quorum learns from a query:The functionality
tells the server that clientjasked a query, and the protocol
tells the quorum the same thing, because the label is key-
switched to clientj’s public key and every contributing client
sees whose key it is. A federation of competitors should treat
the query pattern, who asked and how often, as disclosed to the
quorum rather than to the server alone. It is not the query, the
features or the label, all of which stay encrypted to everyone
but the querier. Hiding the pattern needs a mechanism this
protocol does not have, and the natural one, routing every
answer through an anonymous channel, costs a round and is
orthogonal to the cryptography here.
c) Who counts the queries:The allowanceQis a func-
tionality parameter, and a deployment has to place the counter
somewhere. The server sees every query and is the natural
place, and definition 1 lets it be corrupt, so a corrupt server can
refuse to count. That does not break the bound of theorem 2,
because Section IV-C already assumes an honest server, and
Section IV-D shows why that assumption cannot be dropped
at all. Under a threshold belowNa client can also spread
its queries across quorums, and each quorum sees only its
own share, so a per-quorum tally is not a per-client tally. A
deployment that needs the bound enforced rather than assumed
must either keept=N, which is the configuration we
measure, or run the counter as a separate service the clients
trust for metering alone.
d) A second query strategy, and what it does not settle:
We also ran a variant that spends half its budget bisecting

===== PAGE 19 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 19
TABLE X
RANDOMISED RESPONSE ON THE RETURNED LABEL. COPY FIDELITY
AFTER10 5 LABEL QUERIES,AGAINST THE ACCURACY THE SERVED
MODEL RETAINS,AT EACH BUDGETε. MEAN OVER THREE SEEDS. THE
MAJORITY SHARE A CONSTANT PREDICTOR ACHIEVES IS0.488ON
AG-NEWS,0.250ONDBPEDIA AND0.083ONBANKING77.
Task∞8 4 2 1 0.5
AG-News fidelity0.989 0.986 0.954 0.889 0.774 0.598
accuracy0.649 0.648 0.620 0.494 0.372 0.303
DBpedia fidelity0.956 0.946 0.831 0.571 0.268 0.139
accuracy0.789 0.785 0.640 0.297 0.150 0.103
Banking77 fidelity0.777 0.722 0.364 0.052 0.020 0.016
accuracy0.206 0.203 0.092 0.028 0.018 0.015
toward the decision boundary and then fits the same linear
model. It loses in13of the15cells, reaching0.675against
0.755on Banking77 at5×10 4 queries, because a bisection
chain returns many nearly identical points and a linear fit gains
less from them than from independent ones. Tramer et al.
report the same ordering for multiclass models and offer the
same reason, that the searches split across several decision
boundaries [27].
The ordering reverses once the budget is large against the
head. On AG-News the variant crosses over at about16queries
per parameter and at65it leaves0.0041of the decisions
wrong against the random strategy’s0.0072, a factor of1.77.
Banking77 never reaches3.4queries per parameter at our
largest budget, so its cells are measured below the crossover
and the count of13reflects the budget grid rather than the
strategy. We report the random strategy because it is the
stronger one over the range an allowance would sit in, and
because it is the simpler.
Neither strategy is the attack a cryptanalyst would mount.
Both fit a model to labelled points. The published construc-
tions instead solve for each decision hyperplane from points
found on it, and tie the hyperplanes to one another so that the
scale the argmax discards is fixed once [62], [30]. That route
costs a factor logarithmic in the precision demanded rather
than linear in it, so our figures bound the allowance from
the wrong side and should be read as what a straightforward
adversary pays.
e) Noise on the returned label:The query allowance is
one way to price extraction. Perturbing the answer is the other,
and it is what a reader who knows differential privacy will
ask for first. We measure it. The server flips the returned
label under randomized response at budgetε, which is the
label-level mechanism [63], and we record both what the copy
reaches and what the served model still scores. Table X reports
the result.
The mechanism does not separate the two quantities. At
ε= 8it moves neither, costing AG-News0.001of accuracy
and the copy0.003of fidelity. Below that both fall together.
On AG-News the budget that first costs the copy a fifth of
its fidelity isε= 1, where the copy still reaches0.774and
the served model has fallen to0.372, under the0.488share
of its most common class. On DBpedia accuracy falls by a
larger fraction than fidelity at every budget belowε= 8. On
Banking77 the copy does degrade faster than the task below
ε= 4, and only after accuracy has reached0.028against a
majority share of0.083, so the model the noise protects is
already worse than a constant predictor.
This is the argument for metering queries rather than per-
turbing answers. Noise on the label is charged to every honest
query and to every extraction query at the same rate, and the
extraction campaign spends10 5 queries where an honest client
spends one. The allowance charges the two differently, which
is the property the mechanism lacks. We therefore state the
operational bound as a bound on queries, and we do not add
noise to the answers.
The published defences do not offer a third option, and
the reason is the encryption. Query-distribution monitoring
reads the query and tests whether a client’s stream looks like
a sweep [64]. Adaptive misinformation reads the query and
answers differently when it looks out of distribution [65].
Proof of work reads the query to price it [66]. Watermarking
needs the answer to be a deterministic keyed function of
the query, so that a repeat cannot be filtered out [67]. Our
server holds a ciphertext of a feature vector and, by the same
assumption that protects the head, learns nothing from it.
Every one of these defences is a decryption in disguise, which
is the argument of proposition 1 applied to a different gate.
Output randomization is weak by a theorem as well as
by our table. Against a server that answers incorrectly with
constant probabilityρbelow one half, extraction costs a factor
of8/(1−2ρ) 2 times a logarithm and no more [68]. That
bounds what the defender buys. Table X supplies the half
their analysis leaves out, which is what the defender pays.
One mechanism does survive both restrictions and we have
not measured it. Drawing a fresh head from a distribution for
each query, rather than perturbing the label, needs no access
to the query and flips only answers near a boundary [69]. It
has a known break at a higher query cost, and its accuracy
cost under our arrangement is open.
f) Comparison with a released model:The contrast is
not a matter of degree. A participant holding the model in
plaintext has fidelity1at zero queries, may read the parameters
directly rather than infer them, and is subject to no allowance
because there is nothing to meter. Granting logits rather than
labels would be nearly as generous. The head is linear in
features the client computes itself, sod+ 1logit queries
recover it exactly by linear solve, which is769queries here
against the1.2×10 4 to2.0×10 5 that labels demand. We
confirm this directly, recovering the head to fidelity1.000from
769answers when the served interface returns a distribution
instead of an index. Restricting the answer to the label is
therefore what converts extraction from a solve into a search,
and the query allowance is what prices that search. The
same conclusion has been reached from the other direction
in deployment, where recovering a production model’s final
projection layer was made materially harder by withdrawing
exactly the richer outputs this protocol never offers [28].
G. Comparison with Model Disclosure
Never disclosing the model costs accuracy, and table II
allows the price to be read directly. The quantityA dis −A sel

===== PAGE 20 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 20
is0.071on AG-News,0.104on TREC,0.136on DBpedia,
0.075on Banking77 and0.029on CIFAR-100. The price is
largest in the middle of the label-space range and smallest at
the extremes, and it is paid for a property that no accuracy
figure can substitute for. After the protocol ends, there is no
plaintext model anywhere.
The last column of table II isolates the second difference of
Section V-A. On four of the five tasksA pool −A dis exceeds
Adis −A sel. It is0.182against0.071on AG-News,0.257
against0.104on TREC,0.163against0.075on Banking77,
and0.109against0.029on CIFAR-100. DBpedia is the
exception, at0.063against0.136. On those four tasks most of
the distance between a servable arrangement and a centralised
model is therefore attributable to the partition of the data, and
not to the decision never to decrypt.
We do not present the disclosed model as an alternative
configuration of this protocol, since it does not satisfy the
requirements of Section III. Disclosing the model changes the
threat model. A participant that holds the model in plaintext
can inspect it, run inference on it without limit, redistribute it,
and mount the white-box attacks that Section VI-A surveys,
and the query allowance of Section V-F becomes meaningless.
Those are different guarantees and they answer a different
question. A deployment that can disclose the model should
use a protocol designed for that, and prior one-shot federated
learning provides several. The construction presented here
addresses deployments in which disclosure is not permitted.
H. Scope and Limitations
a) Linearity of the shared quantity:This is what Sec-
tion III-B shows the never-disclosed requirement forces, and
it is a real restriction. A shared adapter inside the backbone
would adapt the representation for every participant rather than
only for its owner. Serving such an adapter reduces to secure
transformer inference (Section VI-E) and composes with that
literature at its cost.
b) A public constant in the serving path:The serving
circuit compares logits through a polynomial approximation
of the sign, and that approximation resolves a fixed absolute
margin. The argmax does not change when every logit is
multiplied by a positive constant, but the margin the circuit
must resolve does. Our runs fix one such constant from the
exported head. A deployment cannot do that, because the head
is a ciphertext, so it needs a public bound on the head’s norm
instead. Section IV does not treat that bound as secret, and we
do not measure what a loose one costs.
c) Bounds on model extraction:The query allowance of
Section V-F is an operational control. Where honest use is in-
trinsically high-volume, so that no allowance separates it from
extraction, calibrated noise added to the returned labels bounds
cumulative leakage instead [63]. That mechanism composes
with the protocol without modification, and it is orthogonal to
it. The protocol protects the contributions cryptographically,
and differential privacy would protect the answers statistically.
Every accuracy figure in this paper assumes it is not in use.
d) Malicious participants:The cryptographic guarantees
assume semi-honest parties. A client that uploads a crafted
head displacement can bias the shared head, and because
contributions are encrypted the server cannot inspect them.
Two directions are compatible with the encryption and are
left to future work, an upload-time norm bound enforced
by a zero-knowledge proof, and robust aggregation evaluated
homomorphically.
e) Availability:Section IV states the protocol for at-
out-of-Nthreshold, and every measurement here is taken at
t=N. That setting gives the strongest collusion resistance the
structure admits and the weakest availability, since every client
must take part for a label to be produced. Loweringtrelaxes
that at two costs. It admits coalitions of sizet, and it tightens
the query allowance, because the bound of Section V-F scales
with the largest coalition that cannot decrypt. Which point on
that trade-off a deployment wants is a deployment question.
We did not measure any point other thant=N.
The liveness cost of that choice should be stated plainly.
The scheme admits anytwith2≤t≤N, and at a general
threshold a query needstclients rather than all of them,
which is what makes serving survive an offline participant.
Our implementation setst=N, so in the configuration we
measured a single unavailable client blocks every query until it
returns. A deployment that needs serving to continue through
churn setst < Nand accepts coalitions of that size.
Section IV-F makes the price of that choice smaller than
it appears. Loweringtraises the coalition’s total allowance
(t−1)Q, so a coalition reaches a given fidelity sooner. It
does not raise the ceilingδ wb on what a coalition can learn
about an honest client, since that ceiling is a property of the
shared head. The threshold therefore trades availability against
the cost of an attack rather than against what the attack can
ultimately achieve, and a deployment can buy liveness with a
proportionate reduction inQ.
VI. RELATEDWORK
A. Attacks at Training Time and at Inference Time
Federated learning (FL) began as an iterative procedure in
which a server repeatedly broadcasts a model, clients train
it on their own data, and the server averages the returned
updates [10]. In every round each client sends a new update
computed on its private data, and several attacks have shown
that these updates leak more than anything else the protocol
reveals. A gradient allows reconstruction of the batch that pro-
duced it [42], [43]. An observer of the per-round updates infers
membership and unintended properties of another client’s data,
and the repetition of those updates is what makes the attack
strong [11], [12], [70]. A server that chooses the weights it
broadcasts does not need inference at all, since crafted weights
make clients return verbatim copies of their own inputs, even
through a secure-aggregation layer [71], [72]. Several works
share predictions instead of gradients, and the predictions leak
too [73], [74], [75], [76].
Attacks that see only the final model are consistently
weaker, and the field survey draws that separation explic-
itly [54]. Several works infer membership from a released
model, or invert it from released confidences [77], [78],
[79], [80], [81], and against models that generalize well they

===== PAGE 21 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 21
identify few members, and only at low false-positive rates [37].
The reason for the gap is simple. An update is a detailed
view of one client’s data and arrives every round, where the
final model is a single average that generalization moves away
from any one training example. A protocol that never sends
an update, and that sends anything only once, therefore leaves
every adversary with the weaker attack.
B. Protecting Training with Cryptography
Secure aggregation lets the server learn only the sum of the
clients’ updates, using masks that cancel in the aggregate [82].
It is lossless, but it protects one round’s sum inside an iterative
protocol, and Kerkouche et al. and So et al. show that the
revealed per-round sums themselves leak across rounds [83],
[84]. Homomorphic encryption goes further by computing on
contributions that stay encrypted. POSEIDON runs encrypted
stochastic gradient descent under multiparty CKKS, with
activations replaced by polynomial approximations so that the
server can evaluate them homomorphically [19]. The guarantee
is strong and the model loses no accuracy, but the approach is
iterative and encrypted nonlinearity costs a deep multiplicative
circuit with repeated bootstrapping. Several works measure
how delicate those polynomial activations are [85], [86], [87],
[88], [89]. That cost scales with the network being trained,
therefore adapting a pretrained transformer by this route is
out of reach.
Several works encrypt only the aggregation step of an
otherwise plaintext training loop [90], [91], [92], [93], [94].
All of them remain bound to the iterative protocol, hence the
encryption cost is paid on every round and what is protected is
a per-round sum rather than a complete contribution. Single-
key homomorphic encryption forces the assumption that the
server and the clients do not collude [93]. The threshold
structure of Section II-A removes that assumption.
Transfer learning itself has been placed under encryption.
Several works train a classifier head, a linear or logistic model,
or a low-rank adapter on frozen features under CKKS [95],
[96], [97], [98], [99], [100], [101], [102]. These share our
structural niche, a frozen public backbone with a small train-
able unit, but they run an optimizer on ciphertexts, thus
multiplicative depth grows with the step count and every
nonlinearity must be approximated. Several of them are also
single-party, one data owner outsourcing computation rather
than a collaboration of mutually distrustful parties. Our parties
train on their own and must protect what they trained.
C. One-Shot Federated Learning and Differential Privacy
A parallel line collapses the many rounds into a single
exchange [14], [103]. Several works exchange predictions
on a shared public set, which in practice repeats the ex-
change [104], [105], [106]. Genuinely single-round methods
distil the clients’ models through a generator or synthesised
inputs, or fuse the models directly, in one round or in stages
the authors account as one [15], [16], [107], [108], [17]. These
establish that one round can produce a usable model, but they
work in plaintext, and each client sends an entire model or a
synthetic distillate of its data. By the evidence of Section VI-A
that is what an adversary would target. A recent method sends
no model at all, having each client run a frozen pretrained
encoder and upload per-class sufficient statistics once [109].
Those statistics travel in plaintext, and per-class totals are
exactly what Section III-B keeps encrypted.
The one-shot methods that do address privacy use differen-
tial privacy. FedAUXfdp releases client contributions under
a differentially private mechanism after distillation through
a pretrained extractor [18], and related approaches protect
a diffusion-generated surrogate or a teacher ensemble [110],
[111], or apply a noise-free mechanism to the distillation
itself [112]. These are our natural quantitative peers, and
their privacy is lossy, because the noise a meaningful budget
requires is added to the artifact that is released. Differential
privacy proves a statistical bound on how much a released arti-
fact can reveal and buys that bound with accuracy. Encryption
makes a contribution computationally indistinguishable from
random to every party without the key and costs the model
nothing. Several works apply the same trade-off to transfer
learning, running noisy gradient descent on frozen features or
on a low-rank adapter [113], [114], [115], [116], [117], [118].
They share our backbone-and-adapter structure, but they pay
a budget-dependent accuracy tax on the model they release,
and they are centralised or multi-round.
D. Federated Fine-Tuning and Task Arithmetic
A recent line federates parameter-efficient fine-tuning, com-
municating a low-rank adapter rather than a model. FedIT
averages the adapters round by round [119], but per-factor
averaging is biased, because a client learns a product of
two factors and averaging the factors separately does not
give the average of the products. Several works correct that
bias by stacking factors, by reconstructing full products, by
reconciling heterogeneous ranks, or by sharing one factor
only [120], [121], [122], [123]. FFA-LoRA instead freezes the
randomly initialized down-projection and trains only the up-
projection, hence averaging the trained factor is exact [47].
Combining displacements from a shared initializer is task-
vector merging, which is equivalent to one-shot federated
averaging, and one round of fine-tuning suffices for foundation
models in plaintext [124], [125], [126]. None of this line
protects the contributions, which is our subject.
E. Secure Inference
Answering queries from a model that stays encrypted is
the subject of secure inference. Several works evaluate a
transformer under encryption, either non-interactively under
CKKS or between two or three parties with secret sharing,
and in each case the nonlinearities of attention dominate the
cost [57], [127], [128], [129]. This literature is what makes the
disclosure setting of Section III-C affordable, and we compose
with it. The map served here is linear in the features, thus
serving a trained map that sits inside the backbone instead
would reduce to exactly the problem these systems address.
Two systems sit closer. slytHErin evaluates a network under
CKKS with the model held under a multiparty key, and
it key-switches the prediction to the querier, which is the

===== PAGE 22 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 22
TABLE XI
THE CLOSEST SYSTEMS ON THE FOUR AXES THIS PAPER TURNS ON,AS
EACH PAPER REPORTS THEM. THE PLAINTEXT COLUMN SAYS WHETHER
ANY PARTY ENDS UP HOLDING THE TRAINED MODEL IN PLAINTEXT,AND
providerMEANS ONE PARTY DOES WHILE THE QUERIER DOES NOT.
SLYTHERIN ANDCRYPTPEFTSERVE A MODEL THEY DO NOT TRAIN,
HENCE THEIR ROUNDS CELL IS EMPTY. POSEIDONKEEPS THE MODEL
UNDER THE COLLECTIVE KEY AND STATES THAT THE QUERIER DOES NOT
OBTAIN THE MODEL’S WEIGHTS.
System Rounds Protection
Model in
plaintext
Querier
receives
DENSE [15] one none yes the model
GH-OFL [109] one none yes the model
FedAUXfdp [18] one DP yes the model
POSEIDON [19] many HE no the prediction
slytHErin [56] HE no scores
CryptPEFT [130] many 2PC provider scores
HE-OFT one HE no label
serving setting of Section III-C [56]. The same group built
the encrypted training scheme of Section VI-B, therefore the
pair is the closest existing route to a model that no party
decrypts. It evaluates the whole network homomorphically,
which is why the models it reports are a twenty-layer and
a fifty-layer network on a handwritten-digit task rather than a
pretrained encoder. And it returns the prediction vector, hence
the querier receives scores, which Section V-F shows is a
materially cheaper target for extraction than a label is.
CryptPEFT divides the work as we do and reaches the op-
posite conclusion about who holds the secret. A public frozen
backbone runs in plaintext on the client, the client encrypts
the resulting features, only the adapter is evaluated under
encryption, and the client receives the adapter’s output [130].
Confining encrypted computation to a small unit after the
representation is the motivation for our design as well. It is a
two-party protocol, the trained unit is the provider’s plaintext,
and there is no training protocol, therefore it establishes that
the serving arrangement is practical without addressing how
mutually distrustful parties would build the unit at all. It
reports one inference in2.26s on CIFAR-100. It is two-party
and the adapter is one party’s plaintext, hence it evaluates no
ciphertext-by-ciphertext product and restores no levels.
Constructions for the encrypted maximum faster than the
tournament of Section III-C exist, both for ranking and order
statistics at constant comparison depth and for decoding a lan-
guage model without decrypting the scores [131], [132]. Both
are single-key and neither carries the collective refreshes that
the threshold setting requires, thus neither transfers unchanged.
Positioning.Table XI places the closest systems on the axes
that separate them. The multi-round cryptographic line protects
every round but pays on every round, and what it protects
is a per-round sum. The one-shot line exposes its single
contribution in plaintext, or noises it and pays in accuracy.
The fine-tuning line communicates a small object but protects
nothing. A single prior scheme is at once one-shot, federated
and encrypted, but only for a single-layer closed-form learner
that cannot adapt a deep representation [133]. What remains
unaddressed is a protocol that exposes no training-time quan-
tity, that exchanges anything at all only once, and that never
discloses the model even to the parties that built it. Section III
works out what that forces, and the rest of the paper measures
what it costs.
VII. CONCLUSION
We presented HE-OFT, a federated fine-tuning protocol in
which no party receives the trained result. The design follows
from the observation that federated learning’s privacy risk is
concentrated in the quantities a protocol exposes while the
model is being built, and from the further requirement that in
some deployments the finished model may not be distributed
either. Each client fine-tunes on a frozen public backbone,
retains its adapter locally, and uploads a single encrypted head
displacement. The server combines those displacements under
multiparty CKKS and never decrypts the result. A quorum of
clients returns only the predicted label, addressed to the party
that asked.
Withholding the model constrains what may be shared.
Since the querying party must form its query from components
it can evaluate itself, those components must be public, and
the shared trained quantity must therefore attach after the last
nonlinearity of the network. Across four text classification
tasks and one vision task, the protocol produces a model
stronger than any client obtains alone, at a cost of0.03to0.14
accuracy relative to a model that is aggregated and disclosed.
Two directions follow. Robustness to actively malicious
participants is outside the present guarantee, and reconciling
robust aggregation with an encrypted contribution remains
open. Serving a shared quantity that sits inside the backbone,
rather than after it, reduces to secure transformer inference.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We acknowledge the support of T ¨UB˙ITAK (the Scientific
and Technological Research Council of T ¨urkiye) projects
124E091 and 124N941. The authors used Claude agents to
polish the manuscript.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Bommasani, D. A. Hudson, E. Adeliet al., “On the opportunities and
risks of foundation models,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07258, 2021.
[2] E. J. Hu, Y . Shen, P. Wallis, Z. Allen-Zhu, Y . Li, S. Wang, L. Wang,
and W. Chen, “LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models,”
inICLR, 2022.
[3] M. J. Sheller, B. Edwards, G. A. Reina, J. Martin, S. Pati, A. Kotrotsou,
M. Milchenko, W. Xu, D. Marcus, R. R. Colen, and S. Bakas, “Feder-
ated learning in medicine: facilitating multi-institutional collaborations
without sharing patient data,”Scientific Reports, vol. 10, p. 12598,
2020.
[4] European Parliament and Council of the European Union, “Regulation
(eu) 2016/679 (general data protection regulation),” Official Journal of
the European Union, L 119, pp. 1–88, 2016.
[5] U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, “HIPAA privacy rule,”
45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 164, 2013.
[6] Republic of T ¨urkiye, “Law on the protection of personal data (kis ¸isel
verilerin korunması kanunu), law no. 6698,” 2016.
[7] Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, “Personal
information protection law of the people’s republic of china,” 2021.
[8] Parliament of India, “Digital personal data protection act,” 2023.
[9] G. Xiao, J. Lin, and S. Han, “Offsite-tuning: Transfer learning without
full model,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04870, 2023.
[10] B. McMahan, E. Moore, D. Ramage, S. Hampson, and B. A. y. Arcas,
“Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentral-
ized data,” inAISTATS, 2017.

===== PAGE 23 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 23
[11] M. Nasr, R. Shokri, and A. Houmansadr, “Comprehensive privacy
analysis of deep learning: Passive and active white-box inference
attacks against centralized and federated learning,” inIEEE S&P, 2019.
[12] L. Melis, C. Song, E. De Cristofaro, and V . Shmatikov, “Exploiting
unintended feature leakage in collaborative learning,” inIEEE S&P,
2019.
[13] G. Zhu, D. Li, H. Gu, Y . Yao, L. Fan, and Y . Han, “FedMIA: An
effective membership inference attack exploiting “all for one” principle
in federated learning,” inIEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2025, pp. 20 643–20 653.
[14] N. Guha, A. Talwalkar, and V . Smith, “One-shot federated learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.11175, 2019.
[15] J. Zhang, C. Chen, B. Li, L. Lyu, S. Wu, S. Ding, C. Shen, and C. Qi,
“DENSE: Data-free one-shot federated learning,” inNeurIPS, 2022.
[16] R. Dai, Y . Zhang, A. Li, T. Liu, X. Yang, and B. Han, “Enhancing
one-shot federated learning through data and ensemble co-boosting,”
inICLR, 2024.
[17] Z. Tang, Y . Zhang, P. Dong, Y .-m. Cheung, A. C. Zhou, B. Han,
and X. Chu, “Fusefl: One-shot federated learning through the lens of
causality with progressive model fusion,” inNeurIPS, 2024.
[18] H. Hoech, R. Rischke, K. Mueller, and W. Samek, “FedAUXfdp: Dif-
ferentially private one-shot federated distillation,” inIJCAI Workshop
on Federated Learning, 2022.
[19] S. Sav, A. Pyrgelis, J. R. Troncoso-Pastoriza, D. Froelicher, J.-
P. Bossuat, J. S ´a Sousa, and J.-P. Hubaux, “POSEIDON: Privacy-
preserving federated neural network learning,” inNDSS, 2021.
[20] European Parliament and Council of the European Union, “Regulation
(eu) 2024/1689 (artificial intelligence act),” Official Journal of the
European Union, L, 2024/1689, 2024.
[21] J. H. Cheon, A. Kim, M. Kim, and Y . Song, “Homomorphic encryption
for arithmetic of approximate numbers,” inASIACRYPT, 2017.
[22] C. Mouchet, J. R. Troncoso-Pastoriza, J.-P. Bossuat, and J.-P. Hubaux,
“Multiparty homomorphic encryption from ring-learning-with-errors,”
PoPETs, vol. 2021, no. 4, pp. 291–311, 2021.
[23] Y . Liu, M. Ott, N. Goyal, J. Du, M. Joshi, D. Chen, O. Levy, M. Lewis,
L. Zettlemoyer, and V . Stoyanov, “RoBERTa: A robustly optimized
BERT pretraining approach,” arXiv:1907.11692, 2019.
[24] A. Dosovitskiy, L. Beyer, A. Kolesnikov, D. Weissenborn, X. Zhai,
T. Unterthiner, M. Dehghani, M. Minderer, G. Heigold, S. Gelly,
J. Uszkoreit, and N. Houlsby, “An image is worth 16x16 words:
Transformers for image recognition at scale,” inICLR, 2021.
[25] V . Lyubashevsky, C. Peikert, and O. Regev, “On ideal lattices and
learning with errors over rings,”Journal of the ACM, vol. 60, no. 6,
pp. 43:1–43:35, 2013.
[26] J. H. Cheon, K. Han, A. Kim, M. Kim, and Y . Song, “Bootstrapping
for approximate homomorphic encryption,” inEUROCRYPT, 2018.
[27] F. Tram `er, F. Zhang, A. Juels, M. K. Reiter, and T. Ristenpart, “Stealing
machine learning models via prediction APIs,” inUSENIX Security,
2016.
[28] N. Carlini, D. Paleka, K. D. Dvijotham, T. Steinke, J. Hayase, A. F.
Cooper, K. Lee, M. Jagielski, M. Nasr, A. Conmy, I. Yona, E. Wallace,
D. Rolnick, and F. Tram `er, “Stealing part of a production language
model,” inICML, 2024.
[29] Y . Chen, X. Dong, J. Guo, Y . Shen, A. Wang, and X. Wang, “Hard-label
cryptanalytic extraction of neural network models,” inASIACRYPT,
2024.
[30] N. Carlini, J. Ch ´avez-Saab, A. Hambitzer, F. Rodr´ıguez-Henr´ıquez, and
A. Shamir, “Polynomial time cryptanalytic extraction of deep neural
networks in the hard-label setting,” inEUROCRYPT, 2025.
[31] J. H. Cheon, D. Kim, and D. Kim, “Efficient homomorphic comparison
methods with optimal complexity,” inASIACRYPT, 2020.
[32] A. Viand, C. Knabenhans, and A. Hithnawi, “SoK: Fully homomorphic
encryption compilers and verifiable computation,” inIEEE S&P, 2023.
[33] A. Wainakh, F. Ventola, T. M ¨ußig, J. Keim, C. Garcia Cordero,
E. Zimmer, T. Grube, K. Kersting, and M. M ¨uhlh¨auser, “User-level
label leakage from gradients in federated learning,”Proceedings on
Privacy Enhancing Technologies, vol. 2022, no. 2, pp. 227–244, 2022.
[34] M. Rathee, C. Shen, S. Wagh, and R. A. Popa, “ELSA: Secure
aggregation for federated learning with malicious actors,” inIEEE S&P,
2023.
[35] F. Karakoc ¸, A. K ¨upc ¸¨u, and M. ¨Onen, “Fault tolerant and malicious
secure federated learning,” inCANS, 2024.
[36] C. A. Choquette-Choo, F. Tram `er, N. Carlini, and N. Papernot, “Label-
only membership inference attacks,” inICML, 2021.
[37] N. Carlini, S. Chien, M. Nasr, S. Song, A. Terzis, and F. Tramer,
“Membership inference attacks from first principles,” inIEEE S&P,
2022.
[38] Y . Peng, J. Roh, S. Maji, and A. Houmansadr, “OSLO: One-shot label-
only membership inference attacks,” inAdvances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2024.
[39] L. T. Phong, Y . Aono, T. Hayashi, L. Wang, and S. Moriai, “Privacy-
preserving deep learning via additively homomorphic encryption,”
IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 13,
no. 5, pp. 1333–1345, 2018.
[40] Y . Oz, G. Yehudai, G. Vardi, I. Antebi, M. Irani, and N. Haim,
“Reconstructing training data from real-world models trained with
transfer learning,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.15845, 2024.
[41] B. Jayaraman and D. Evans, “Are attribute inference attacks just
imputation?” inProceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, 2022, pp. 1569–1582.
[42] L. Zhu, Z. Liu, and S. Han, “Deep leakage from gradients,” inNeurIPS,
2019.
[43] J. Geiping, H. Bauermeister, H. Dr ¨oge, and M. Moeller, “Inverting
gradients – how easy is it to break privacy in federated learning?” in
NeurIPS, 2020.
[44] B. Li and D. Micciancio, “On the security of homomorphic encryption
on approximate numbers,” inAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT),
ser. LNCS, vol. 12697, 2021, pp. 648–677.
[45] M. Checri, R. Sirdey, A. Boudguiga, and J.-P. Bultel, “On the practical
CPA-D security of “exact” and threshold FHE schemes and libraries,”
inAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO), 2024.
[46] B. Li, D. Micciancio, M. Schultz, and J. Sorrell, “Securing approximate
homomorphic encryption using differential privacy,” inAdvances in
Cryptology (CRYPTO), ser. LNCS, vol. 13507, 2022, pp. 560–589.
[47] Y . Sun, Z. Li, Y . Li, and B. Ding, “Improving LoRA in privacy-
preserving federated learning,” inICLR, 2024.
[48] X. Zhang, J. Zhao, and Y . LeCun, “Character-level convolutional
networks for text classification,” inNeurIPS, 2015.
[49] X. Li and D. Roth, “Learning question classifiers,” inCOLING, 2002.
[50] I. Casanueva, T. Tem ˇcinas, D. Gerz, M. Henderson, and I. Vuli ´c,
“Efficient intent detection with dual sentence encoders,” inWorkshop
on NLP for Conversational AI (NLP4ConvAI), ACL, 2020.
[51] A. Krizhevsky, “Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images,”
University of Toronto, Tech. Rep., 2009.
[52] T.-M. H. Hsu, H. Qi, and M. Brown, “Measuring the effects of non-
identical data distribution for federated visual classification,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:1909.06335, 2019.
[53] Q. Li, Y . Diao, Q. Chen, and B. He, “Federated learning on non-IID
data silos: An experimental study,” inIEEE ICDE, 2022.
[54] P. Kairouz, H. B. McMahan, B. Aventet al., “Advances and open
problems in federated learning,”Foundations and Trends in Machine
Learning, vol. 14, no. 1–2, pp. 1–210, 2021.
[55] C. Mouchet, J.-P. Bossuat, J. Troncoso-Pastoriza, and J.-P. Hubaux,
“Lattigo v5: A multiparty homomorphic encryption library in Go,” in
WAHC, 2021.
[56] F. Intoci, S. Sav, A. Pyrgelis, J.-P. Bossuat, J. R. Troncoso-Pastoriza,
and J.-P. Hubaux, “slytHErin: An agile framework for encrypted deep
neural network inference,” inCloud S&P, 2023.
[57] J. Zhang, J. Liu, X. Yang, Y . Wang, K. Chen, X. Hou, K. Ren,
and X. Yang, “Secure transformer inference made non-interactive,” in
NDSS, 2025.
[58] H. Yang, S. Shen, W. Dai, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, and Y . Zhao, “Phantom: A
CUDA-accelerated word-wise homomorphic encryption library,”IEEE
TDSC, vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 4895–4906, 2024.
[59] C. Agull ´o-Domingo, ´O. Ord ´o˜nez-Cebri´an, A. Rodr ´ıguez-Herrera,
C. Rojo-M ´arquez, G. D. Guerrero, and J. M. Cebri ´an, “FIDESlib: A
fully-fledged open-source FHE library for efficient CKKS on GPUs,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.04775, 2025.
[60] J. H. Cheon, D. Kim, and D. Kim, “Efficient homomorphic comparison
methods with optimal complexity,” inAdvances in Cryptology –
ASIACRYPT 2020, 2020, pp. 221–256.
[61] E. Lee, J.-W. Lee, Y .-S. Kim, and J.-S. No, “Minimax approximation of
sign function by composite polynomial for homomorphic comparison,”
IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 19,
no. 6, pp. 3711–3727, 2022.
[62] D. Lowd and C. Meek, “Adversarial learning,” inProceedings of the
11th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery
in Data Mining, 2005, pp. 641–647.
[63] F. McSherry and K. Talwar, “Mechanism design via differential pri-
vacy,” inIEEE FOCS, 2007.
[64] M. Juuti, S. Szyller, S. Marchal, and N. Asokan, “PRADA: Protecting
against DNN model stealing attacks,” inIEEE European Symposium
on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), 2019, pp. 512–527.

===== PAGE 24 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 24
[65] S. Kariyappa and M. K. Qureshi, “Defending against model stealing
attacks with adaptive misinformation,” inIEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2020, pp. 770–778.
[66] A. Dziedzic, M. A. Kaleem, Y . S. Lu, and N. Papernot, “Increasing the
cost of model extraction with calibrated proof of work,” inInternational
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2022.
[67] S. Szyller, B. G. Atli, S. Marchal, and N. Asokan, “DAWN: Dynamic
adversarial watermarking of neural networks,” inProceedings of the
29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, 2021, pp. 4417–
4425.
[68] V . Chandrasekaran, K. Chaudhuri, I. Giacomelli, S. Jha, and S. Yan,
“Exploring connections between active learning and model extraction,”
in29th USENIX Security Symposium, 2020, pp. 1309–1326.
[69] I. M. Alabdulmohsin, X. Gao, and X. Zhang, “Adding robustness to
support vector machines against adversarial reverse engineering,” in
Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Information
and Knowledge Management (CIKM), 2014, pp. 231–240.
[70] O. Zari, C. Xu, and G. Neglia, “Efficient passive membership inference
attack in federated learning,” inPriML Workshop, NeurIPS, 2021.
[71] F. Boenisch, A. Dziedzic, R. Schuster, A. S. Shamsabadi, I. Shumailov,
and N. Papernot, “When the curious abandon honesty: Federated
learning is not private,” inIEEE EuroS&P, 2023.
[72] L. Fowl, J. Geiping, W. Czaja, M. Goldblum, and T. Goldstein,
“Robbing the fed: Directly obtaining private data in federated learning
with modified models,” inICLR, 2022.
[73] H. Takahashi, J. Liu, and Y . Liu, “Breaching FedMD: Image recovery
via paired-logits inversion attack,” inCVPR, 2023.
[74] Z. Yang, Y . Zhao, and J. Zhang, “FD-Leaks: Membership inference
attacks against federated distillation learning,” inAPWeb-WAIM, 2023.
[75] Y . Gu and Y . Bai, “LDIA: Label distribution inference attack against
federated learning in edge computing,”Journal of Information Security
and Applications, vol. 74, p. 103475, 2023.
[76] H. Shi, T. Ouyang, and A. Wang, “Unveiling client privacy leakage
from public dataset usage in federated distillation,”PoPETs, vol. 2025,
no. 4, pp. 201–215, 2025.
[77] R. Shokri, M. Stronati, C. Song, and V . Shmatikov, “Membership
inference attacks against machine learning models,” inIEEE S&P,
2017.
[78] S. Yeom, I. Giacomelli, M. Fredrikson, and S. Jha, “Privacy risk in
machine learning: Analyzing the connection to overfitting,” inIEEE
CSF, 2018.
[79] A. Salem, Y . Zhang, M. Humbert, P. Berrang, M. Fritz, and M. Backes,
“ML-Leaks: Model and data independent membership inference attacks
and defenses on machine learning models,” inNDSS, 2019.
[80] M. Fredrikson, S. Jha, and T. Ristenpart, “Model inversion attacks that
exploit confidence information and basic countermeasures,” inACM
CCS, 2015.
[81] B. Hitaj, G. Ateniese, and F. P ´erez-Cruz, “Deep models under the
GAN: Information leakage from collaborative deep learning,” inACM
CCS, 2017.
[82] K. Bonawitz, V . Ivanov, B. Kreuter, A. Marcedone, H. B. McMahan,
S. Patel, D. Ramage, A. Segal, and K. Seth, “Practical secure aggre-
gation for privacy-preserving machine learning,” inACM CCS, 2017.
[83] J. So, R. E. Ali, B. G ¨uler, J. Jiao, and A. S. Avestimehr, “Securing
secure aggregation: Mitigating multi-round privacy leakage in federated
learning,” inAAAI, 2023.
[84] R. Kerkouche, G. ´Acs, and M. Fritz, “Client-specific property inference
against secure aggregation in federated learning,” inWPES, 2023.
[85] K. Garimella, N. K. Jha, and B. Reagen, “Sisyphus: A cautionary tale
of using low-degree polynomial activations in privacy-preserving deep
learning,” inPPML Workshop, ACM CCS, 2021.
[86] M. Baruch, N. Drucker, L. Greenberg, and G. Moshkowich, “A method-
ology for training homomorphic encryption friendly neural networks,”
inACNS Workshops, 2022.
[87] P. Agamennone, “Polynomial approximations of relu for secure cnn
inference in homomorphic encryption environments,”IEICE Trans.
Fundamentals, vol. E108.A, no. 7, pp. 977–980, 2025.
[88] F. Al Hossain and T. Rahman, “A training framework for optimal
and stable training of polynomial neural networks,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.11589, 2025.
[89] A. Ibarrondo and M. ¨Onen, “FHE-compatible batch normalization for
privacy-preserving deep learning,” inPriML Workshop, NeurIPS, 2021.
[90] C. Zhang, S. Li, J. Xia, W. Wang, F. Yan, and Y . Liu, “Batchcrypt:
Efficient homomorphic encryption for cross-silo federated learning,” in
USENIX ATC, 2020.
[91] W. Jin, Y . Yao, S. Han, J. Gu, C. Joe-Wong, S. Ravi, S. Avestimehr,
and C. He, “Fedml-he: An efficient homomorphic-encryption-based
privacy-preserving federated learning system,” inNeurIPS, 2023.
[92] X. Wei, R. Huang, L. Lei, and J. Wu, “FedSHE-CQ: A communication-
efficient homomorphic encryption framework for federated learning,”
Computer Networks, vol. 274, p. 111813, 2026.
[93] J. Liu, L. Yan, B. Li, L. Yu, and C. Shen, “SHE-LoRA: Selective
homomorphic encryption for federated tuning with heterogeneous
LoRA,” inICLR, 2026.
[94] I. Emmaka and Tran Viet Xuan Phuong, “One-shot secure aggregation:
A hybrid cryptographic protocol for private federated learning in IoT,”
inIEEE TPS-ISA, 2025.
[95] S. Lee, G. Lee, J. W. Kim, J. Shin, and M.-K. Lee, “HETAL: Efficient
privacy-preserving transfer learning with homomorphic encryption,” in
ICML, 2023.
[96] M. Kim, Y . Song, S. Wang, Y . Xia, and X. Jiang, “Secure logistic
regression based on homomorphic encryption: Design and evaluation,”
JMIR Medical Informatics, vol. 6, no. 2, p. e19, 2018.
[97] A. Kim, Y . Song, M. Kim, K. Lee, and J. H. Cheon, “Logistic
regression model training based on the approximate homomorphic
encryption,”BMC Medical Genomics, vol. 11, no. Suppl 4, p. 83, 2018.
[98] J. Chiang, “Privacy-preserving CNN training with transfer learning:
Two hidden layers,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12623, 2025.
[99] A. M. I. M. Osmani, T. Rahman, M. S. Rahman, and S. Islam, “Priv-
FedTL: Privacy-preserving federated transfer learning for resource
constrained devices,”Computer Networks, vol. 286, p. 112449, 2026.
[100] Al Amin, K. Hasan, L. Hong, and S. Ullah, “Privacy-preserving feder-
ated vision transformer learning leveraging lightweight homomorphic
encryption in medical AI,” inIEEE ICNC, 2026.
[101] Y . Li, W. Yu, and J. Zhao, “PrivTuner with homomorphic encryp-
tion and loRA: A P3EFT scheme for privacy-preserving parameter-
efficient fine-tuning of AI foundation models,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.00433, 2024.
[102] J. Frery, R. Bredehoft, J. Klemsa, A. Meyre, and A. Stoian, “Private
loRA fine-tuning of open-source LLMs with homomorphic encryption,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07329, 2025.
[103] F. Amato, L. Qiu, M. Tanveer, S. Cuomo, D. Annunziata, F. Giampaolo,
and F. Piccialli, “Towards one-shot federated learning: Advances, chal-
lenges, and future directions,”Neurocomputing, vol. 664, p. 132088,
2026.
[104] D. Li and J. Wang, “FedMD: Heterogenous federated learning via
model distillation,” inNeurIPS FL Workshop, 2019.
[105] S. Itahara, T. Nishio, Y . Koda, M. Morikura, and K. Ya-
mamoto, “Distillation-based semi-supervised federated learning for
communication-efficient collaborative training with non-IID private
data,”IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 22, no. 1, pp.
191–205, 2023.
[106] T. Lin, L. Kong, S. U. Stich, and M. Jaggi, “Ensemble distillation for
robust model fusion in federated learning,” inNeurIPS, 2020.
[107] X. Liu, L. Liu, F. Ye, Y . Shen, X. Li, L. Jiang, and J. Li, “FedLPA:
One-shot federated learning with layer-wise posterior aggregation,” in
NeurIPS, 2024.
[108] J. Zhang, S. Liu, and X. Wang, “One-shot federated learning via
synthetic distiller-distillate communication,” inNeurIPS, 2024.
[109] F. Turazza, M. Picone, and M. Mamei, “The Gaussian-Head OFL
family: One-shot federated learning from client global statistics,” in
ICLR, 2026.
[110] M. Mendieta, G. Sun, and C. Chen, “Navigating heterogeneity and
privacy in one-shot federated learning with diffusion models,” in
WACV, 2025.
[111] Q. Li, B. He, and D. Song, “Practical one-shot federated learning for
cross-silo setting,” inIJCAI, 2021.
[112] L. Sun and L. Lyu, “Federated model distillation with noise-free
differential privacy,” inIJCAI, 2021.
[113] F. Tram `er and D. Boneh, “Differentially private learning needs better
features (or much more data),” inICLR, 2021.
[114] H. Mehta, W. Krichene, A. Thakurta, A. Kurakin, and A. Cutkosky,
“Differentially private image classification from features,”TMLR, 2023.
[115] D. Yu, S. Naik, A. Backurs, S. Gopi, H. A. Inan, G. Kamath,
J. Kulkarni, Y . T. Lee, A. Manoel, L. Wutschitzet al., “Differentially
private fine-tuning of language models,” inICLR, 2022.
[116] X. Li, F. Tram `er, P. Liang, and T. Hashimoto, “Large language models
can be strong differentially private learners,” inICLR, 2022.
[117] X.-Y . Liu, R. Zhu, D. Zha, J. Gao, S. Zhong, M. White, and M. Qiu,
“Differentially private low-rank adaptation of large language model
using federated learning,”ACM TMIS, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 1–24, 2025.

===== PAGE 25 =====
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NETWORK SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 25
[118] J. Xu, K. Saravanan, R. van Dalen, H. Mehmood, D. Tuckey, and
M. Ozay, “DP-DyLoRA: Fine-tuning transformer-based models on-
device under differentially private federated learning using dynamic
low-rank adaptation,” inIEEE ICC, 2026.
[119] J. Zhang, S. Vahidian, M. Kuo, C. Li, R. Zhang, T. Yu, Y . Zhou,
G. Wang, and Y . Chen, “Towards building the federated GPT: Federated
instruction tuning,” inIEEE ICASSP, 2024.
[120] Z. Wang, Z. Shen, Y . He, G. Sun, H. Wang, L. Lyu, and A. Li, “FLoRA:
Federated fine-tuning large language models with heterogeneous low-
rank adaptations,” inNeurIPS, 2024.
[121] J. Bai, D. Chen, B. Qian, L. Yao, and Y . Li, “Federated fine-tuning of
large language models under heterogeneous tasks and client resources,”
inNeurIPS, 2024.
[122] Y . J. Cho, L. Liu, Z. Xu, A. Fahrezi, and G. Joshi, “Heterogeneous
LoRA for federated fine-tuning of on-device foundation models,” in
EMNLP, 2024.
[123] P. Guo, S. Zeng, Y . Wang, H. Fan, F. Wang, and L. Qu, “Selective
aggregation for low-rank adaptation in federated learning,” inICLR,
2025.
[124] G. Ilharco, M. T. Ribeiro, M. Wortsman, L. Schmidt, H. Hajishirzi,
and A. Farhadi, “Editing models with task arithmetic,” inICLR, 2023.
[125] Z. Tao, I. Mason, S. Kulkarni, and X. Boix, “Task arithmetic through
the lens of one-shot federated learning,”TMLR, 2025.
[126] Z. Wang, B. Tian, Y . He, Z. Shen, G. Sun, Y . Liu, L. Liu, M. Liu, and
A. Li, “Revisiting federated fine-tuning: A single communication round
is enough for foundation models,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.04650,
2024.
[127] M. Hao, H. Li, H. Chen, P. Xing, G. Xu, and T. Zhang, “Iron: Private
inference on transformers,” inNeurIPS, 2022.
[128] Q. Pang, J. Zhu, H. M ¨ollering, W. Zheng, and T. Schneider, “BOLT:
Privacy-preserving, accurate and efficient inference for transformers,”
inIEEE S&P, 2024.
[129] Y . Dong, W.-j. Lu, Y . Zheng, H. Wu, D. Zhao, J. Tan, Z. Huang,
C. Hong, T. Wei, and W. Chen, “PUMA: Secure inference of LLaMA-
7B in five minutes,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.12533, 2023.
[130] S. Xia, W. Wang, Z. Wang, Y . Zhang, Y . Jin, D. Meng, and
R. Hou, “CryptPEFT: Efficient and private neural network inference
via parameter-efficient fine-tuning,” inNDSS, 2026.
[131] F. Mazzone, M. Everts, F. Hahn, and A. Peter, “Efficient ranking, order
statistics, and sorting under CKKS,” inUSENIX Security, 2025.
[132] M. Avitan, M. Baruch, N. Drucker, I. Zimerman, and Y . Goldberg,
“Efficient decoding methods for language models on encrypted data,”
arXiv:2509.08383, 2025.
[133] O. Fontenla-Romero, B. Guijarro-Berdi ˜nas, E. Hern ´andez-Pereira, and
B. P ´erez-S´anchez, “FedHEONN: Federated and homomorphically en-
crypted learning method for one-layer neural networks,”Future Gen-
eration Computer Systems, vol. 149, pp. 200–211, 2023.